



Download Request: Select Items: 2000-2495
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:05:50
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 14, 1998

Tony Blair and the brothers

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 762 words


MR Tony Blair has little love for trades unions, and still less for their
influence upon the Labour Party. One of his principal private objectives in
government is to weaken the historic bonds between Labour and the TUC as much as
he dares, in pursuit of his dream of redefining the allegiances of British
politics. The unions know all this, and thus there is unlikely to be much real
warmth for Mr Blair's administration at the TUC Conference which opens in
Blackpool today.

There will be plenty of grousing about manufacturing shutdowns in the north, the
gap between public and private sector pay, and the Government's dilution of the
Social Chapter. Mr Peter Mandelson's latest public remarks in his new role as
Trade and Industry Secretary will offer more encouragement to the CBI than to
the TUC, as he seeks to soothe employers' fears that Britain will swallow
European social and workplace legislation wholesale. Yet this Labour Government
is the only one the trades unions are going to get, and most of their leaders
grudgingly recognise that they must make the best of it, and count their
blessings. Mr Blair has done as little for the unions as he thinks as he dares,
without causing serious trouble within his own party.

But he has already given them concessions on employment legislation which
thoroughly alarm employers. It is all very well for Mr Gordon Brown - rightly,
in our view - to argue that the problems of British manufacturing industry stem
as much from poor productivity as from high interest rates.

We cannot too often remind ourselves that the French, for all their hopelessly
inefficient nationalized industries, are still more productive than the British.
But Mr Brown is a senior member of a government which has imposed further
burdens upon British industry, by making it harder and more expensive to sack
workers, introducing a minimum wage and now a maximum 48-hour week. In a
newspaper interview today, Mr Mandelson makes sympathetic noises to employers,
and shows no enthusiasm for increasing the consultative rights of factory
workforces. But the concessions already granted can only increase costs. If
government ministers tell the TUC the truth in Blackpool this week, the message
from New Labour will be: "We have paid all our political debts to the brothers,
and more. From here on, if you're serious about saving industrial jobs, you'll
help keep costs down and your own noses clean, instead of pleading for more
concessions that will make British manufacturing even less competitive." In the
real world, those things will be said behind closed doors, rather than in the
conference chamber. But the bottom line is that the unions today matter much
less to New Labour than does keeping the British economy on course, and the
middle classes happy. If the TUC's leaders look like getting in the way of those
objectives, they will find Mr Mandelson and his colleagues banging the door on
their fingers.

Ridiculous

RIDICULE and contempt are far more dangerous to leaders than hatred. After a
weekend of turmoil, President Clinton is exulting in opinion polls which suggest
that the American public still has little appetite for his impeachment. It is
too early to be sure, but there seems a real chance that he could survive in
office to the end of his term, two years hence, if no further major revelations
are forthcoming. Given the national mood, even the uncovering of another White
House intern or two may not sink him. But for the world at large, the prospect
is grim indeed. Since the inception of this presidency, the Clintons have seemed
to many people a tawdry pair. But from here on, with the Starr Report common
property around the globe, how can this President speak for his country without
inviting mockery and derision? His dignity and credibility are shot to pieces.
It is understandable that many people recoil from seeing the leader of the
world's only superpower destroyed by a dalliance with an exceptionally silly
young woman. But it is a grim outlook indeed, that the great political and
economic issues and crises of the next two years must be addressed by a man
rendered absurd in the eyes of people everywhere. It is widely believed that he
launched cruise missile attacks against alleged international terrorist centres,
to deflect attention from his own difficulties at home. Whatever he does at home
or abroad from here on in will be measured not against the demands of global
politics, but those of the Starr Report. He may survive, but he can never be
taken seriously again.


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               2 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 1998

Britain plans warm welcome for heir to Saudi throne

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 401 words


BRITAIN is rolling out the red carpet today for Crown Prince Abdullah, the heir
to the Saudi Arabian throne, as he starts a grand tour to meet the world leaders
who will fete him when he succeeds the ailing King Fahd.

In what one senior Foreign Office diplomat called "an unusual mark of favour",
the prince is lunching with the Queen at Balmoral today and with Tony Blair at
Downing Street tomorrow. He will also meet Prince Charles, who is keen to
promote understanding of Islam.

Prince Abdullah is making his first visit to the West in 10 years, and the
Foreign Office has pulled off a coup by ensuring he comes to Britain before
France or the United States.

Unusually attentive hospitality is being arranged for the four-day visit, which
comes at a time when Britain's most important Arab ally and export market - and
the world's largest oil producer - is beset by low oil prices and the threat of
an economic slump.

With Saudi government revenue falling by 25 per cent, there are some tough
decisions facing the 74-year-old prince.

Among the issues at stake for Britain is the pounds 20 billion al-Yamamah
defence deal, which has been quietly restructured recently to take account of
the kingdom's worsening problems.

Anglo-Saudi relations have improved since serious strain caused by the
activities in London of the dissident Mohammed al-Mas'ari, whom the Tory
government failed to expel. May's release from a Saudi jail of nurses Deborah
Parry and Lucille McLauchlan ended another difficult period.

Since King Fahd, his older half-brother, was laid low by a stroke two years ago,
Prince Abdullah, commander of the US-trained National Guard, has taken on more
responsibility for the country's day-to-day running.

He is less pro-American than King Fahd, more attuned to Arab affairs, and gets
on well with the country's religious establishment.

Despite its reservations about the recent US air attacks on alleged terrorist
targets in Afghanistan and Sudan, Saudi Arabia is seen as a pro-Western bulwark
in a volatile region and a vital ally in the attempt to contain Iraq. Prince
Abdullah has been closely involved in mending fences with Iran under the
moderate leadership of President Mohammed Khatami.

"Saudi Arabia is the key to the security of the Gulf," a British official said.
"There is no substitute for the leaders meeting eyeball to eyeball."


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 14, 1998, Monday

Obituary: Brigadier Andrew Massey

BYLINE: Max Arthur

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Page 6

LENGTH: 1785 words


IN 1972 the Commanding Officer of 22 SAS, Lieut-Col Peter de la Billiere, asked
one of his troop commanders, Captain Andrew Massey, to make a study of the
regiment's role in counter-terrorism. Already an experienced soldier who had
served with the Airborne Forces in Northern Ireland and the SAS in Oman, Massey
concluded that what was needed was a self- contained assault force on permanent
short-notice standby for deployment anywhere at any time. The plan was shelved.

That September, at the Olympic Games in Munich, a group of Palestinian
terrorists attacked the Israeli team housed in the Olympic Village killing two
and taking nine hostage. Attempts were made by the German authorities to
negotiate but at Furstenwalde airport chaos ensued and a policeman, four
terrorists and all nine hostages were killed.

It was plainly evident to Edward Heath's government that a well- organised
terrorist unit could hit Britain. After "Bloody Sunday", internment and 450
deaths in Northern Ireland that year, it was possible that the IRA might strike
on the mainland.

The Director of Military Operations sent for Massey's study and authority was
given for 22 SAS to form a counter-terrorist team under the code name Pagoda.
In 1980, after eight years of honing its skills in various covert actions and
now named Special Projects (SP), the team burst upon the television screens of
this country as it assaulted the Iranian Embassy in London.  Andy Massey's
clearly defined plans to counteract terrorism had finally come to fruition.  The
attack, ruthlessly executed, had however also raised the profile of the SAS.

Massey was born in Carlisle in 1943 and after Welbeck College and Sandhurst he
was commissioned into the Royal Army Service Corps in 1963. His first tour was
with the transport squadron of 7th Artillery Brigade. After a year with the
Royal Corps of Transport Movement (RCT) squadron he joined 63 Para Squadron
(RCT) in February 1967. Two years later the squadron became the first airborne
unit to reinforce the beleaguered troops in Northern Ireland. In Belfast they
assumed an infantry role and Massey as a troop commander quickly learnt to deal
with intense hatred and violence.

After this tour Massey's commanding officer realised he had the potential for
greater things and advised him to go for selection to the SAS. He joined them in
1970. Several troops from his previous command also applied for selection.

He was soon in the Dhofar, a region of the Oman where the SAS were involved in
the counter- insurgency campaign in aid of the Sultan's Armed Forces, whose
overthrow was sought by the Dhofar Liberation Front. It was a tough campaign
which Massey relished, for it illustrated what could be achieved by well-trained
special forces. In all Massey had three tours in the area.  Although the SAS
were involved in some fierce fighting, their main objective, apart from
repressing the rebels, was to win the "hearts and minds" of the local people,
the Firquats, and to train them to fight their own battles.

In 1974 Massey rejoined the Airborne Forces as Staff Captain HQ 16 Para Brigade
and had several tours of Northern Ireland before attending the Staff College at
Camberley in 1975. Two years later he married Major Annabelle Cunningham and in
1979 they went together to Buckingham Palace where each were appointed MBE for
services in Northern Ireland. From 1977 to 1979 he served as a Staff Officer in
HQ in Northern Ireland.

Massey returned to the SAS in 1979 to command A Squadron, and among other places
served in Northern Ireland and Oman. On promotion to Lieut-Col in 1981 he became
an instructor at Camberley where he led the Counter Revolutionary Warfare Team.

On 2 April 1982 the Falkland Islands were invaded by the Argentinian Forces. D
Squadron and half of G Squadron SAS were quickly despatched.  Throughout the
campaign that was to follow Massey was the Special Forces Liaison Officer at HQ
Commander-in-Chief, Fleet at Northwood. Very much a man of action, he would have
preferred to have been with his regiment, but his calm disposition and
understanding of the regiment's strategy made him the ideal person for the
situation.

In the initial operations by the SAS in South Georgia an SAS troop was inserted
by helicopter on to the Fortuna Glazier. Severe weather forced them to evacuate
by three helicopters, two of which crashed. The third picked up all the
survivors. The island was later taken by seaborne assault.  In an action
reminiscent of Second World War actions in the Western Desert, the SAS carried
out a daring raid on Pebble Island and destroyed 11 aircraft.

Misfortune was to follow when 18 SAS men were killed in a helicopter while
changing ship prior to the main landing. This was a great loss to the regiment.
Massey however knew that war was not just physical but psychological.  He knew
that those who had survived the crash would want to continue to fight. The
surveillance and intelligence gathered by the SAS in many cases proved vital to
the victory in the Falklands.

In 1984 Massey attended the US Armed Forces Staff College in Norfolk, Virginia
where he won the Leadership Prize. That autumn he became the first Support
Service officer to command 22 SAS. Always a highly principled and insightful
soldier, during the next two and a half years Massey brought about profound
changes to the regiment. He tackled hard questions and was not afraid to break
with former traditions and old habits. A superb trainer of men, he wanted to
revitalise the regiment's thinking, and enhance their already considerable
efficiency.

His uncompromising attitude did not always sit comfortably within the regiment,
nor with his peers. As one officer recalled, "I didn't always see eye to eye
with what he was doing, but I respected him." He was not afraid to stand up to
senior officers if they proposed impossible tasks or if the projected mission
was built on the myth that the SAS could do anything.

He was a strict disciplinarian, and when an NCO whom he knew well stepped out of
line, Massey severely reprimanded him. Asked later why he had been so hard, he
replied, "because he was worth it". The NCO went on to achieve much within the
regiment. Massey understood his soldiers well and they in turn held him in the
highest regard. He seldom needed to raise his voice - a look spoke volumes. One
soldier was heard to say of him "I think he must put his eyeballs in the fridge
each night". It was a touch of wry humour but matched his own.

By the end of his command, the SAS was achieving considerable success in
Northern Ireland and elsewhere, and he had widened the horizons of the regiment.
Many who had served under him felt he had done more for the regiment than any
other commanding oFor his service he was appointed OBE.

In 1988 he went to the Ministry of Defence where he was responsible for UK
Commitment in the Far East and Africa. It was a complex and delicate task which
involved crisis management, regional assistance, liaison with the Foreign and
Commonwealth Office, and as war looked more likely, the assembly of the UK Order
for Operations in the Gulf.

In 1990 Massey became Deputy Director of Special Forces and when the Gulf War
broke out, Operational Commander of the UK Special Forces for Operation Granby.
In Command of the British Forces in the Middle East was his former Commanding
Officer, General Peter de la Billiere.

Since its inception in North Africa in 1941, for the SAS, the desert has been
both a battlefield and a home. During the short, but intense war, the SAS
operated behind enemy lines for 43 days using armoured Land Rovers equipped with
a powerful array of weapons and with motor cycles.  Their prime task was to
search out and destroy Scud missile sites, many of which were aimed at Israel.

In this hostile and harsh terrain the SAS called up 48 air strikes against
military targets and Scud sites as well as destroying several themselves.  On
one occasion a mobile SAS column encountered the Scud convoy in the open.  Using
a hand-held Milan, a troop commander took out one of the scuds.  The fire fight
which followed lasted four and a half hours. Prior to this the Special Boat
Squadron in a daring raid got within 60 miles of Baghdad and destroyed a
substantial section of communications between the capital and neighbouring
Jordan.

General Norman Schwarzkopf, who had previously not wanted to employ special
forces, was delighted. Another valuable success was the capture of an Iraqi
artillery officer with battle maps. One lessons of earlier desert campaigns was
unfortunately forgotten when an eight-man patrol, Bravo Two Zero, was inserted
by helicopter without vehicles to withdraw them if anything went wrong.

In 1992 Massey was promoted Brigadier and returned to his parent corps as
Commandant of RCT Training Centre in Aldershot. He retired from the Army in
1993. After working with Defence Systems Limited for a short time he became
Director of the Welsh TEC, an organisation that linked training colleges with
employers.

After the Gulf War came a flood of books relating personal experiences.  Massey,
never afraid to break with tradition, felt compelled to give what he referred to
as "an historic truth" of events. In 1996, in a BBC documentary, he related the
role of the SAS at length with pride and spoke of several acts of courage by
Special Forces in Iraq. "Our Gulf activities show what can be achieved by a few
hundred highly committed, very determined men, who focus themselves on their
responsibilities to other people." To go so public was a bold and courageous
move and had been a difficult decision and one typical of Andy Massey. It earned
the rancour of the regiment which he loved so much.

Massey had a lifetime interest in sport, particularly golf and football.  As
chairman of the Executive Committee of the Army Football Association he did much
to regenerate inter-unit competition. Before leaving the Army he presented the
Massey Trophy to be played for each season among the 10 corps.  One of his
proudest moments was recently watching a cricket match in which his 12-year-old
son, Ian, scored 129 runs for his county.

Andy Massey was a devout Roman Catholic who delighted in his wife and family and
was looking forward to spending more time with them.

Max Arthur

Andrew Christopher Massey, soldier: born Carlisle, Cumberland 18 April 1943; MBE
1979, OBE 1987; Commanding Officer, SAS 1984-87; Deputy Director, Special Forces
1990-91, Commandant, RCT Training Centre 1992-93; married 1977 Annabelle
Cunningham (one son, one daughter); died Hereford 19 August 1998.


LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                               4 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 16, 1998, Wednesday

The struggle to avoid a war with no winners; Political Notes

BYLINE: William L. Dowdy

SECTION: OBITUARIES; Page 7

LENGTH: 619 words


THE WORLD was recently jolted out of the facile assumption that the end of the
Cold War meant the end of nuclear peril. Multiple test detonations by India,
then by Pakistan, confirmed those countries' membership of the "nuclear club",
along with the United States, Russia, China, Great Britain, and France. Israel
is the de facto eighth member, although it has never acknowledged a nuclear
weapons capability.

The possibility of further nuclear proliferation is generally agreed to be one
of the most dangerous challenges facing the post-Cold War world.  The challenge
took on new urgency with the dissolution of the former Soviet Union and the
subsequent relaxation in accountability and control of the former superpower's
nuclear weapons, fissile materials, and nuclear scientists and technicians. This
development has been accompanied by the rise of new aspirant nuclear powers
including Iraq, North Korea, and Iran.

Extensive efforts have long been sustained to prevent the spread of nuclear
weapons. Dire predictions of three and four decades ago that there would be by
now scores of nuclear weapons states have proven to be ill-founded.  Through
bilateral and multilateral nuclear arms control and reduction agreements and a
global nuclear non-proliferation "regime" including nuclear- free zones, the
nuclear non-proliferation treaty (NPT), the comprehensive test ban treaty
(CTBT), technology and fissile material transfer restrictions, etc, the list of
nuclear arms powers has thus far remained short.

Furthermore, a number of states have actually eliminated their nuclear weapons
arsenals including South Africa, Ukraine, Belarus, and Kazakhstan, Argentina and
Brazil have mutually decided to end their nuclear weapons research programme.

Non-proliferation successes notwithstanding, there remain certain rogue regimes
and state leaderships that appear determined to acquire nuclear arms by whatever
means possible at the very time that the requisite materials, technology, and
expertise have become more available. Determined aspirant regimes, if they are
willing to spend enough money and stay the course for a number of years, will
most likely eventually be able to obtain nuclear weapons.

Recent events in Nairobi and Dar es Salaam have served to spotlight another
ominous and portentous post-Cold War challenge: the escalation of transitional
terrorism. Non-state and state-sponsored terrorist activities have raised the
spectre that terrorists may eventually gain access to weapons of mass
destruction. While chemical and biological agents are likely to be easier to
obtain and to employ, attempts at nuclear terrorism cannot be ruled out.

The world survived the nuclear arms race of the Cold War because of capable
strategies, effective command and control, good luck, consensus on the part of
nuclear powers that nuclear war would be catastrophic, with no winners, and the
shared conviction that "horizontal" proliferation - the spread of weapons to
additional states - was a bad thing.

The failure of non-proliferation policies in the cases of India and Pakistan has
introduced new complexities and dangers into the international system.  Even
more worrisome are the apparent nuclear ambitions of Iraq, North Korea, and
Iran, not least because those states have been implicated in the sponsorship of
terrorism. It is the nexus between rogue states and sponsored-but-not-controlled
terrorist groups that arguably presents the most ominous security threat of the
future.

William L. Dowdy is co-editor (with Barry Schneider) of 'Pulling Back from the
Nuclear Brink: reducing and countering nuclear threats' (Frank Cass, pounds
37.50/ pounds 17.50)


LOAD-DATE: September 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 17, 1998

Mercury: Mr Leicester's Diary

SECTION: Mercury: Mr Leicester's Diary, Pg.10

LENGTH: 383 words


25 years ago

- A new wave of terror bombings broke out today - coupled with clashes between
police and demonstrators in Dublin - as Mr Heath flew into the Irish capital for
his talks with Eire Premier Mr Liam Cosgrave. The latest explosion occurred
outside an office block in Edgbaston, Birmingham and it critically injured an
Army bomb disposal man. He had been working on the bomb when it went off.
Thirty-one men were arrested in Dublin today during demonstrations against Mr
Heath's visit. Protestors entered the main post office in O'Connell Street -
centre of the 1916 Easter Rising against British rule - and tried to barricade
themselves in.

- Cosby's first village hall, built in Victory Park at a cost of GBP 42,000 was
opened on Saturday by Mr Vic Harrison, chairman of Blaby Rural Council. The
hall, with a large assembly room, plus kitchen, shower room, dressing rooms and
all modern amenities, stands at the corner of the park, where a gala, with
stalls and amusements, was held to celebrate the occasion.

- Stars of the show at the Battle of Britain anniversary display at RAF
Cottesmore near Oakham on Saturday were the amazing French acrobatic team La
Patrouille de France - and a terrified hare. This massive ground and air show
drew a crowd of around 45,000 people for a day of thrills, nostalgia and fun.

50 years ago

- Members of Billesdon Rural Council have come to the conclusion that their
district could with advantage be extended so as to make a stronger unit of
administration. "They have discussed the matter with their neighbours and as a
result certain minor alterations of boundaries have been agreed," said Mr
Stanley Skinner (Clerk) in a statement today.

"In the case of Oadby," said Mr Skinner, "they have taken account of the
possibility that this urban district may cease to function as a separate local
government unit. They have therefore dealt with the possibility that Oadby
should be amalgamated with the Billesdon rural district."

- The transfer of Peter McKennan, Leicester City's 13st Scottish inside forward,
to Brentford last night ranks as one of the biggest surprises in Leicester
football for some time. No actual amount of transfer fee is disclosed, but it is
safe to assume that the amount is in the region of the GBP 10,000 mark.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                               6 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 22, 1998

Britain promises to lead way in new peacekeeping agreement;
BLAIR AT THE UN: Plea for political will and urgency to tackle world's problems

BYLINE: IAN BLACK IN NEW YORK

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 536 words


TONY BLAIR yesterday pledged to put British forces at the service of the United
Nations for peacekeeping and humanitarian operations, in a businesslike general
assembly speech overshadowed by President Bill Clinton's deepening problems with
the Monica Lewinsky affair.

The Prime Minister told the gathering of world leaders in New York that
following the Government's strategic defence review Britain would, within six
months, become the first member state to conclude a specific agreement to make
troops available - part of what he called the UN's role as "the guardian of
global peace and security".

Signalling strong agreement with Mr Clinton's single-issue preoccupation in his
own address with international terrorism, Mr Blair offered to host a high -level
conference of the G8 in London this autumn to tackle fundraising for terrorists.

He recalled the passage of controversial legislation, after the Omagh bombing
and attacks on US embassies in Kenya and Tanazania, "to ensure we can tackle
terrorist conspiracy aimed at third countries".

Mr Blair was one of the very few world leaders who offered wholehearted support
for President Clinton after the president ordered air strikes against targets in
Afghanistan and Sudan last month in retaliation for the bomb blasts against the
US missions.

The Prime Minister called the situation in the Middle East "profoundly
worrying", but pointed to progress in Northern Ireland as proof that the most
intractable problems could be tackled successfully.

In a strongly worded passage, he warned the Serbian president, Slobodan
Milosevic, that he would ignore "at his peril" a new, British-sponsored UN
resolution calling for an immediate ceasefire in Kosovo. "Nothing can justify
scorched earth tactics and the forcible creation of hundreds of thousands of
refugees," he warned.

Britain believes President Milosevic has flouted repeated promises to seek a
negotiated solution in Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians make up nine-tenths of the
population and where his Serbian troops have been trying to crush an armed
revolt by the Kosovo Liberation Army.

Mr Blair also signalled support for a strong line against Iraq, where Saddam
Hussein continues to hold up UN weapons inspections.

He called for greater accountability and modern management methods for the UN,
and issued the clearest call yet for the broadening of the permanent membership
of the security council to include the developing world as well as wealthy
Germany and Japan.

Britain would remain in the forefront of international debt reduction, he
pledged.

"We face multiple new challenges as we approach a new century," Mr Blair said.
"Our only hope of tackling them successfully is tackling them together. We need
effective international co-operation and modern instititions. We need the UN
system pulling together as never before. But above all we need political will
and a sense of urgency.

"The problems of our modern world are too pressing, their consequences too
immediate, their impact too far-reaching for us to hesitate or to look away any
longer. We are being given a warning: to act, to give purpose and direction. And
the time to do it is now."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               7 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 22, 1998, Tuesday

Afghanistan threat hastens thaw between US and Iran

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: NEWS; Page 13

LENGTH: 422 words


AS TENSIONS on their country's border with Afghanistan mounted yesterday,
Iranian representatives began a series of high-level meetings in New York that
could accelerate the thaw in relations between Tehran and the West.

From the rostrum of the United Nations, Iran's reformist President, Mohammad
Khatami, appealed for international pressure to be brought to bear on the
Taliban, Afghanistan's radical Sunni rulers, to end massacres of the Shia Muslim
minority.

Meanwhile, on the fringes of the UN General Assembly, the Iranian Foreign
Minister, Kamal Kharrazi, was due to sit across a table from Madeleine Albright,
the US Secretary of State, at a session of an eight-nation group seeking to
contain the crisis, which has brought Iran and the Taliban regime to the brink
of open conflict.

Mr Kharrazi had also been scheduled to see Robin Cook, though that was cast into
some doubt by the Foreign Secretary's decision to remain with the Queen in
riot-torn Malaysia.

Although Washington insists that bilateral issues will not be on the agenda, the
Kharrazi-Albright face-to-face is the highest-level contact between the two
governments since the US embassy hostage crisis in November 1979, and is a
chance to nudge forward the "direct dialogue" urged by the Clinton
administration.

The US still maintains sanctions against a regime it accuses of fomenting
international terrorism. But on Afghanistan a de facto community of interest has
emerged. Like Britain, the US has condemned last month's murder of nine Iranian
diplomats by Taliban militiamen, to which Iran responded by sending200,000
troops to its eastern border, plus an unspecified number of helicopters
yesterday.

Both Tehran and Washington - with its missile attack against the headquarters of
the suspected terrorist Osama bin Laden in August - have claimed the same right
of self defence, under the same Article 7 of the UN charter, to intervene with
force in Afghanistan.

Mr Cook's talks with Mr Kharrazi would have followed a two-day visit to London
this month by Ali Ahani, the head of the West European department of the Iranian
foreign ministry.

The visit was a sign of how Britain's ties with Iran may also be emerging from
the deep freeze, but British officials discount talk of an early exchange of
ambassadors. The problem remains the 1989 fatwa against the writer Salman
Rushdie. The edict can only be lifted by religious authorities in Iran, not by
President Khatami, however much he might be inclined to do so.


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 23, 1998, Wednesday

UNIONIST CONCERNS AS TROOPS HEAD HOME

BYLINE: Mervyn Pauley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 586 words


UNIONISTS reacted with a mixture of suspicion and alarm last night to news of
fresh troop withdrawals from Northern Ireland.

They sniffed a bid to appease the IRA and their mood was not improved by Sinn
Fein strategist Martin McGuinness's welcome for the development - and call for
the removal of the RUC from nationalist areas.

Between 300 and 400 troops are to being pulled out of the Province as a result
of the improving security situation, it was announced earlier.

The members of 39 Regiment (Royal Artillery) and the 1st Battalion the
Highlanders will return to their bases in Britain over the next two weeks.

At the same time Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan announced that routine army
patrolling will be ended in the once-notorious south Londonderry area from the
weekend. The move follows the cessation of routine army patrols in Belfast 11
days ago.

Mr Flanagan said the troop reductions were being made as a result of an ongoing
review of the security situation in which he has been engaged with the Army GOC.

He was pleased to announce that the "improving security situation" allowed him
to operate increasingly widely across Northern Ireland with a reduced military
presence.

The security chiefs are also reviewing the position of military bases here and
hope to be in a position to initiate a scaling-down in the near future, he said.

The troops returning to Britain are the remaining elements of two full
battalions drafted into Northern Ireland as reinforcements in advance of the
Drumcree parade disorder in early July - most of whom have already returned to
base.

Mr Flanagan said both battalions remained under the command of the GOC and could
be returned to the Province immediately should they be needed.

Troop levels, at just under 16,000, are now lower than at their best point
following the 1994 ceasefires and before the IRA bombed Canary Wharf in February
1996.

Last night Ulster Unionist Assemblyman Reg Empey said he hoped the troop
reductions were being made for security reasons alone and not as a political
move to try to achieve IRA decommissioning.

He saw them as a re-run of the previous ceasefire, when there were army
reductions in response to the lessening of the terrorist threat.

Mr Empey added: "Nobody wants to see troops on our streets a day or an hour
longer than necessary. But I would remind people that the only reason we have
troops on our streets is because some people decided they would use force to
impose their political will on the people of Northern Ireland.

"So the sooner the violent organisations depart, the sooner the troops will go
alongside them."

DUP justice spokesman Ian Paisley Jnr described the decision as "careless and
foolhardy" when the IRA remained "armed to the teeth" and warned it would leave
the lives and property of the civilian population at risk.

He said: "It is a not-very-well-disguised bid to appease the IRA and send a
signal that the security services will decommission before there is any IRA
decommissioning."

Martin McGuinness, Sinn Fein Mid-Ulster MP, described the removal of more troops
as a "positive step in the right direction" but said it had to be remembered
that the Good Friday Agreement was signed five months ago "and we are only now
seeing such developments".

He added: "The British Government must speed up the demilitarisation of the six
counties. In particular they should begin dismantling the huge military
installations dotted across the country."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STAND DOWN: between 300 and 400 troops are being withdrawn

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                               9 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

POLITICS: LIB-DEMS ACCUSED OF 'GOING SOFT' ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 365 words


LIBERAL Democrats were yesterday accused of being soft on terrorism after the
party's rank-and-file slammed their MPs for failing to block counter-terrorism
legislation rushed through Parliament in the wake of the Omagh atrocity.

An emergency motion condemning the Criminal Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy)
Act was passed unanimously by the party conference in Brighton.

The motion called on Liberal Democrats at Westminster to vote against the Act's
renewal and press instead for comprehensive counter-terrorist legislation,
taking into account the need to preserve human rights.

The Ulster Unionists branded the conference move a "sudden U-turn".

South Antrim Assemblyman Duncan Dalton said it was "rank hypocrisy" for the
Liberal Democrats to support the legislation in the Commons and then decide at
their conference to break the cross-party consensus on Northern Ireland.

His party had wanted the counter-terrorism Act to go even further and it was a
shock to see the Liberal Democrats "running away from even these measures", Mr
Dalton said.

It offered "a degree of succour to those who commit such acts of terror".

Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Andrew Mackay also hit out at the conference
vote, saying: "Yet again the Liberal Democrats have shown themselves to be soft
on terrorism by passing this motion."

The Act, which cracks down on the membership of splinter terrorist groups and
conspiracy to commit crime abroad, was pushed through the Commons and the Lords
in just two days during an emergency recall of Parliament earlier this month.

Leading the attack on the party's stance on the legislation, David Howarth, from
Cambridge, said the Government's tight timetable and MPs' holidays were a
"trivial reason for giving away fundamental human rights".

Dubbing the Act "illiberal and dangerous", Mr Howarth said it would have
outlawed the French Resistance in Britain during the Second World War and made
helping the ANC in their fight against apartheid in South Africa illegal.

Lembit Opik, the Liberal Democrats' Northern Ireland spokesman, backed the
emergency motion but defended the party's voting record on the legislation.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              10 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 24, 1998

Seven held over Africa bombings

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.28

LENGTH: 261 words


Seven Middle Eastern terror suspects faced a second day of questioning over
links with the Saudi dissident blamed for the US embassy bombings in Africa.

The men, arrested in London yesterday, are thought to be associated with Osama
bin Laden, the multi-millionaire Islamic fundamentalist identified by US
authorities as the man who plotted last month's attacks in Kenya and Tanzania.

The arrests followed a lengthy operation, codenamed Operation Challenge,
involving the Metropolitan police's anti-terrorist branch, Special Branch and
MI5. They were in contact with the FBI over the operation.

The dawn raids took place at houses in north-west and west London yesterday. An
eighth raid, on a business premises in London, took place in the afternoon.

The seven men arrested were being held at Paddington Green police station in
central London. It is thought that those detained include several Egyptians and
at least one Saudi, thought to have close connections with bin Laden.

Islamic sources in London said one of the arrested men was an Egyptian lawyer
who was sentenced to death in absentia in October last year for conspiring to
glow up the old bazaar in Cairo.

Egyptian authorities claimed he was a member of the Vanguards of the Conquest, a
group linked to Gamaa al-Islamiya, which claimed responsibility for the massacre
in Luxor last year in which 58 tourists were killed.

At least two of the suspects are in their late 40s or early 50s and have been in
Britain for up to four years. Several have in the past been refused political
asylum.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              11 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 24, 1998

Seven held in terror swoop

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell, Richard Norton-Taylor and David Pallister

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 674 words


SEVEN Middle Eastern men were arrested on terrorism charges in London yesterday
in an operation connected with Osama bin Laden, the Saudi dissident alleged to
have been behind the recent bombings of US embassies in Africa.

The arrests followed a lengthy intelligence-led operation, codenamed Operation
Challenge, involving the Metropolitan police's anti-terrorist branch, the police
Special Branch and MI5. They were in contact with the FBI over the operation.

The raids took place at houses in north-west and west London at around 6am
yesterday. An eighth raid, on a business premises in London, took place in the
afternoon.

The seven men arrested were last night being questioned in a central London
police station, understood to be Paddington Green. It is believed that at least
two of those held are Egyptian.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "This was part of a carefully planned ongoing
operation led by the Metropolitan police anti-terrorist branch." This was one of
the first major operations under the leadership of the new head of the
anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry. It has been under
way for a number of weeks.

Scotland Yard were not prepared to discuss whether the arrests concerned
investigations into plans to carry out acts of terrorism in the United Kingdom
and aimed at targets linked to the United States.

The men were arrested under section 14 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act 1989
which concerns the commission, instigation and preparation of acts of terrorism.

Islamic sources in London said the men arrested were largely associated with
Egyptian Islamic fundamentalist groups. They named one as an Egyptian lawyer who
was sentenced to death in absentia in October last year for conspiring to blow
up the old bazaar in Cairo. He has been granted political asylum in Britain.

The Egyptian authorities claimed he was a member of the Vanguards of the
Conquest, a sister group of al-Gamaa al-Islamiya, which claimed responsibility
for the massacre in Luxor last year in which 58 tourists were killed.

Most of the fundamentalists seeking asylum in Britain have regular contact with
an assigned Special Branch contact and many of them openly campaign at meetings,
demonstrations and at Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park. They also openly collect
money at some of London's mosques after Friday prayers. After the bombing of the
US embassies in east Africa several attended a noisy protest rally outside the
embassy in Grosvenor Square.

The moves follow a series of arrests of alleged lieutenants and supporters of Mr
bin Laden in an international intelligence operation orchestrated by the FBI.

Last week, German anti-terrorist forces arrested Mahmduh Mahmud Salim at the
request of the US authorities. Mr Salim acknowledged he knows Mr bin Laden but
denied any connection with the bombings of the US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania.

In the US, the FBI has arrested Wadih Hage, a former secretary to Mr bin Laden.

It is understood that yesterday's raids were not connected with the recent
changes in anti-terrorism laws giving police extra powers to charge people
conspiring to plan terrorist acts abroad. However, the existing Prevention of
Terrorism Act makes it an offence to plan terrorist outrages in other countries,
although the police would need more specific evidence than mere conspiracy.

Mr bin Laden, who is believed to be in Afghanistan, is wanted in connection with
the bombings of United States embassies in Kenya and Tanzania last month in
which more than 250 people died. The attacks led to bombing reprisals by the
United States against his alleged training camp in Afghanistan and a chemical
factory near Khartoum. Sudan has insisted the plant was a pharmaceutical plant,
a view which has gained increasing currency among diplomats in both the US and
Britain.

Following the reprisals, a little-known South African group bombed the US -owned
Planet Hollywood in Cape Town, seriously injuring members of a British family.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

Liberal Democrat Conference: Northern Ireland - Anti-terror measures 'shocking'

BYLINE: Sarah Schaefer

SECTION: NEWS; Page 10

LENGTH: 298 words


LIBERAL DEMOCRATS yesterday attacked the Government's emergency anti-terrorism
legislation as "shocking" despite MPs supporting it in a vote in the Commons
earlier this month.

The about-turn was criticised by the Conservatives, who accused the party of
having shown itself yet again to be "soft" on terrorism.

But Lembit Opik, who spoke in support of the emergency motion at the party's
conference, denied there had been a policy change, stressing that the vote
reaffirmed the Liberal Democrats' commitment to replace the existing Criminal
Justice (Terrorism and Conspiracy) Act with a comprehensive legislative package.

"It is irresponsible of the Tories to suggest otherwise," he said. The draconian
measures, which were passed amid the terrorist atrocities of Omagh, Nairobi and
Dar es Salaam, make it easier to secure convictions of proscribed members of
terrorist organisations, such as the Real IRA, by allowing the evidence of
senior police officers to be submitted to courts.

It also makes it a criminal offence to conspire to commit a criminal act abroad.
Mr Opik, the Ulster-born son of Estonian refugees who fled Stalin's troops in
the Second World War, said he spent eight years fighting for the independence of
Estonia by attending demonstrations against the Soviet regime in Britain, a
protest which would be illegal under the Bill.

He said that the parliamentary party had voted for the legislation because it
was needed to move forward the peace process in Northern Ireland.

However, he attacked the clauses of the Act dealing with the international
dimension, saying: "We did the right thing and we made it clear that we opposed
the clauses to combat international terrorism. We will not beholden to the media
circus of Tony Blair."


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              13 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

Police seize Arab terror suspects

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 1495 words


SEVEN MEN suspected of being linked to Islamic terrorism were arrested in London
yesterday.

The men - believed to have links with Osama bin Laden, the alleged terrorist
said to have ordered last month's US embassy bombings in East Africa - were
picked up in a series of early-morning raids after a lengthy surveillance
operation by MI5 and Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Branch.

Mr bin Laden - a wealthy Saudi Arabian dissident, currently believed to be in
Afghanistan - is wanted by America in connection with the 7 August attacks on
its embassies in the Kenyan capital, Nairobi, and Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, in
which more than 250 people were killed.

Security services fear Muslim fundamentalists have been planning to hit a number
of American targets in retaliation for the United States cruise missile attack
on a pharmaceuticals factory in Sudan, which was itself a reprisal for the
embassy bombings.

Security has already been tightened at the US Embassy in Grosvenor Square,
London, and other high-profile locations such as the Planet Hollywood restaurant
in Leicester Square. The Cape Town branch of the American-owned restaurant chain
was bombed last month.

All the men arrested yesterday at seven addresses in north-west and west London
were being interviewed last night by police. An eighth address, believed to be
business premises, was being searched.

Armed officers were not deployed during the arrests, known as Operation
Challenge, and Scotland Yard stressed last night that there had been no threat
of an imminent terrorist attack. Scotland Yard has kept the FBI informed about
the operation. The arrests, under Section 14 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act
1989, are not believed to have been linked to any unsolved terrorist incident.
Nor were the raids connected with recent changes in anti-terrorism laws giving
police the right to act against suspected terrorists plotting attacks in other
countries.

Bakri Muhammad, a spokesman for the International Islamic Front, which supports
Mr bin Laden's wider aims, said the seven men arrested were all political
refugees who had fled Egypt after campaigning against the government there.

Mr Muhammad said they were "well-known political refugees". He added: "They
publish leaflets and send faxes - they have nothing to do with terrorism or Bin
Laden."

He said the men had been in Britain for more than four years and belonged to a
number of Egyptian Islamic movements. "These men are well known by the Special
Branch."

Mr Muhammad said that when the men were arrested they had all gone with the
police peacefully. Their families are now staying with friends living near by.

The FBI believes that Mr bin Laden's organisation, Al Qaeda, is committed to
murdering American military personnel stationed in Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Somalia
and elsewhere. The group has also issued threats against ordinary American
citizens, saying they were a legitimate target.

Two men, one a Yemeni, Mohamed al-Owhali, and the other a Kenyan citizen,
Mohammed Howaida, have already been flown to the US to stand trial for the
Nairobi embassy bombing.

The FBI is seeking a third man, Haroun Fazil, from the Comoros Islands, in
connection with the embassy bombings, and it has offered a reward of up to $ 2m
(pounds 1.3m) for information leading to a conviction.

Yesterday's arrests in London were made by officers from Scotland Yard's
Anti-Terrorist Branch, commanded by Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry. They
were acting, in part, on information supplied by MI5, which is known to have
been stung by criticism that London is a hot-bed of international terrorism.

Senior Yard sources admit that London, like other capital cities, is a
"target-rich" environment for fundamentalist groups who are intent on pursuing a
holy war against America or Britain.

But they say police are more concerned about the risk of a maverick group
committing a "one-off" random attack on a high-profile commercial target, which
is impossible to predict or plan for.

The last serious Middle-East-inspired attack in London was in 1994 when two
Palestinians planted a car bomb outside the Israeli Embassy, causing pounds 5m
damage and injuring 13 people, and a further device outside the offices of a
Jewish charity in Finchley.

Last month, the Government gave itself new powers under the Criminal Justice
(Terrorism and Conspiracy) Act to allow the prosecution of people found to be
plotting terrorist acts abroad. Police emphasised that yesterday's arrests were
not connected to the new legislation.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              14 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 24, 1998, Thursday

MI5 FOIL ARAB TERROR GANG;
 SECRET SERVICE AGENTS SMASH ARAB PLOT TO BRING CARNAGE TO THE STREETS OF
BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 226 words


SECRET service agents yesterday smashed a plot to bring carnage to the streets
of Britain.

Seven Arabs were arrested in a series of pre-dawn raids in north-west London.

They are linked to terrorist chief Osama Bin Laden who is said to have planned
last month's attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania which left
hundreds dead. The group are suspected of planning to bomb US planes flying out
of European airports and the offices of American airlines and firms.

US airforce bases at Lakenheath and Mildenhall in East Anglia and US Embassy
staff in London are also believed to be on their hit list.

The arrests, by Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist squad, follow a surveillance
operation by MI5 and the CIA.

Experts were last night sifting through hundreds of documents taken from the
seven flats, houses and an office that were raided.

A spokesman at Scotland Yard said: "These are Muslim fundamentalist terrorists
with connections to some of the most wanted men in the world.

"We acted when we did because we believe the group are planning a series of
attacks against US interests in Britain and elsewhere in Europe."

British security chiefs were warned to be on alert for an Arab terrorist attack
at American targets after President Clinton ordered missile attacks against
chemical plants in Afghanistan and Sudan.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              15 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               September 24, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1363 words


Britons brace for hurricane

Florida on alert

British tourists in Florida were on alert today as Hurricane Georges raced in
from the Caribbean, leaving in its wake more than 110 people dead and hundreds
missing.

Holidaymakers from the UK are among 100,000 people ordered to evacuate the
Florida Keys, the chain of sub-tropical islands to the south of the state.

Many of the tourists, who have been enjoying near-perfect sunshine in the Keys,
were forced to leave for mainland hotels in Miami and Fort Lauderdale.

But they faced the prospect of moving on again as the storm threatened to follow
them.

The alert means hurricane-force winds could reach the area within 24 hours.

Britons Oliver Thomas and Jonathan Carrington were on a fishing trip in Key West
with two friends when they were advised to head north yesterday.

The group, who arrived in Florida for a two-week visit on Saturday, refused to
be flustered by the storm, which has peaked with sustained winds of 115mph.

Mr Thomas, 27, an architect from Wapping, east London, said: "We left because
all the locals said it was going to get bad."

Many locals fear the storm could bring devastation on the scale seen across the
Dominican Republic, where Georges has killed at least 70 people and left
hundreds missing.

The death toll from the storm's rampage through the Caribbean this week has now
topped 110, with more fatalities likely as it hammers Cuba before reaching the
Keys.

Meanwhile, Virgin Atlantic said it was "with great reluctance" postponing the
launch of its service to Antigua from September 30 to October 21.

British Airways said 98 people on holiday in Antigua had been moved to Barbados
to complete their holidays. Eight had returned to the UK and seven chose to stay
in Antigua and were returning later today.

In Florida, British Airways Holidays had moved all their passengers in the Keys
to the area around Naples, Florida.

NHS on line

everyone in the country could get a lifelong electronic health record under
plans to transform NHS technology being unveiled today.

Health Secretary Frank Dobson's proposals aim to ensure that GPs will also be
linked by computer to hospitals 24 hours a day so they can look up patients'
records, test results and treatments.

GPs' prescriptions will also be downloaded to pharmacies to avoid people waiting
too long, while a national electronic library will allow doctors and nurses to
keep up to date with the research.

- 999 cases involving minor injuries could be treated at home by a motorbike
paramedic, the Audit Commission suggested today. Its report into 999 services
also suggests slower ambulance responses could be given for less urgent cases.

Terror quiz

Seven Middle Eastern terror suspects faced a second day of questioning over
links with the Saudi dissident blamed for the US embassy bombings in Africa. The
men, arrested in London yesterday, are thought to be associated with Osama bin
Laden, the millionaire Islamic fundamentalist identified by the US as the
bombings' mastermind.

Votes plea

Liberal Democrat Leader Paddy Ashdown today challenged Tony Blair to prove he
was not a "control freak" by accepting a new voting system.

In his keynote address to the party conference in Brighton, Mr Ashdown warned
the Prime Minister his response to the Jenkins Commission on electoral reform
would be a defining moment in relations between Labour and the Lib Dems. And he
asked Mr Blair. "Are you a pluralist or are you a control freak? Your decision
on fair votes will tell us which.

"It will determine the future course of our work together and it will tell us
what kind of a country you want Britain to be."

Mr Ashdown told activists, suspicious of links with Labour, if they kept their
nerve they could see major constitutional reform.

Zone alone?

England and Scotland could be in different time zones under a plan from Lord
Archesr. The former Tory deputy chairman and would-be London mayor has drafted a
Bill to give the Scots and Welsh the power to determine their own zones - to
benefit commuters and cut crime as well as bringing the South into line with the
rest of Europe.

Star confesses

Jeremy Beadle told today how he helped a terminally-ill friend commit suicide.
The 50-year-old presenter handed over a recipe for a lethal cocktail of drugs
after the man begged him to end his torment. The man, a 57 -year-old salesman
with motor neurone disease, killed himself, reports the Mirror.

Manning rap

TV watchdogs have reprimanded the BBC for the Mrs Merton show featuring comic
Bernard Manning. The Broadcasting Standards Commission upheld 12 viewers'
complaints about the programme, in which Manning wrongly asserted that no black
or Asian soldiers fought in the Second World War.

Poison letter

The official spokesman of an animal rights group was recovering today after
receiving a letter containing a noxious chemical. Robin Webb, 53, of the Animal
Liberation Front (ALF), needed treatment after opening a letter at home in
Cambridgeshire yesterday.

Graft probe

The number of allegations levelled against Cleveland police in an ongoing
corruption probe has reached 286, the Police Complaints Authority said today. On
the eve of the first anniversary of the Operation Lancet probe, the PCA said the
complaints had been made against 39 officers.

Exports gloom

The strong pound and international economic turmoil are hitting British
manufacturers hard, sending export orders to their lowest level for 15 years,
according to a CBI survey published today.

Choice channel

Television presenter Clive Anderson launched the BBC's first general TV channel
for 34 years. BBC Choice joins Widescreen BBC1, BBC2 and BBC News 24 in the
digital universe.

Major coup

John Major is to take the lid off his years in Downing Street in a BBC series
next autumn.

Feeling safer

A checkpoint guarding Belfast International Airport is to be dismantled in the
light of the reduced terrorist threat.

Convoy escape

More than 100 Britons have left the troubled African kingdom of Lesotho in armed
convoys - and the Foreign Office today issued a warning against travelling
there. About 200 British citizens remain in Lesotho, where fighting has broken
out following military intervention by South African troops.

Serbs warning

Defence Secretary George Robertson today warned Serbian leader Slobodan
Milosevic that he faces "dire consequences" unless he negotiates over Kosovo.
Military options had been examined and Nato forces were moving up to "the next
stage of alert", Mr Robertson stressed at a meeting of Nato defence ministers in
Portugal.

Hyper-speed

Travel between any two points on the planet would take about two hours with a
revolutionary jet, said scientists at Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory in
California. HyperSoar would fly at ten times the speed of sound and would be
shaped like a dagger blade, soaring to 130,000ft and bouncing along the
atmosphere like a pebble across water. A prototype would cost GBP 211m.

Newt slammed

A call to impose a time limit on the impeachment inquiry on President Bill
Clinton has been rejected by Newt Gingrich, the Speaker of the House of
Representatives.

Green Prince

The Prince of Wales was visiting Austria today to promote environmentally
friendly practices in business. He was to give a speech at the European Business
and the Environment Programme seminar in Salzburg.

Pilot missing

A Royal Navy pilot was missing today after a Lynx helicopter from the frigate
HMS Grafton ditched into the South China Sea during a training exercise with the
Singapore Navy.

Storm force

Hurricane predictions are more accurate than a few years ago, in part because of
a new jet that flies the outer edges of the giant storms collecting data, a
federal official said.The Gulfstream IV flies at about 45,000ft on the edges of
hurricanes, dropping radio transmitters that send back storm data.

Treaty pledge

Pakistan said it will unilaterally stick to the nuclear test ban treaty - as
long as arch-rival India does.

Pilots strike

Air France pilots and Paris airport workers staged a partial strike today,
causing some cancellations and delays.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              16 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 1998

Muslim anger at terror arrests;
Seven held in London said to be refugees living under Special Branch
surveillance

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR, DUNCAN CAMPBELL AND IAN TRAYNOR IN BONN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 434 words


MUSLIM groups yesterday protested angrily at the arrest of seven Middle Eastern
men in London on Wednesday, claiming they were political refugees living openly
in Britain for a number of years.

The men, arrested under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, were still being
questioned by police last night. They include one wanted by the Egyptian
government and a Saudi allegedly linked to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi dissident
suspected of being behind last month's bombings of US embassies in Africa. It is
understood the police investigations do not centre on any immediate plans to
carry out attacks here.

Those arrested were said to include Adel Abdul-Majeed Abdul-Bari, an Egyptian
lawyer sentenced to death in absentia by a military court; Hani al-Siba'ie, an
Egyptian refugee; Khaled Abdul-Rahman al-Fawaz, a Saudi; Abdul-Majeed Fahmi, an
Egyptian described as head of the Islamic Information Centre; and Abu Muss'ab
As-souri, a Syrian refugee.

They were named by al-Muhajiroun, an umbrella group including the Islamic
International Front which supports Mr Bin Laden's call for the end of US
military presence in Saudi Arabia.

Sheikh Bakri Muhammad, spokesman for al-Muhajiroun, said yesterday: "These were
political refugees who were not involved in terrorist activity." He added they
had been in Britain for three or four years and had been regularly visited by
Special Branch.

He said the arrested Egyptians had attacked "the totalitarian Egyptian regime"
only by sending faxes.

An Egyptian daily, al-Ahram, alleged that Mr al-Fawaz was a spokesman for Mr Bin
Laden and Mr Abdul-Bari was head of the International Office for the Defence of
the Egyptian People in London.

Mr Abdul-Bari was sentenced to death in 1997 for conspiring to blow up Cairo's
oldest bazaar, and plotting to kill police officers.

In a separate development, the US consulate in Hamburg was sealed off by
hundreds of police and anti-terrorist units last night after German police were
tipped off about a bomb attack.

"We have indications from a very serious source that an explosives attack on the
consulate is planned for the weekend," said a Hamburg police spokesman, Reinhard
Fallak. "We can't rule out that the plan will be implemented."

Police linked the bomb threat to the arrest last week near Munich of a Sudanese
citizen said to be a close associate of Mr Bin Laden. Bavarian special units
raided a house and detained the man, named as Salim Mamdouh Mahmud, after a US
tip-off that he was a fundraiser for Mr Bin Laden and wanted in America for
conspiring to murder US citizens.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 25, 1998

Terror suspects being quizzed

SECTION: Pg.41

LENGTH: 235 words


Seven Middle Eastern men arrested in a major anti-terrorist operation in London
were today facing further questioning by detectives.

One Saudi suspect is believed to have close links to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi
Arabian dissident blamed for the US embassy bombings in Kenya and Tanzania last
month.

The others are thought to be Egyptian political exiles.

The arrests, at houses in north-west and west London on Tuesday, followed a
lengthy operation, codenamed Operation Challenge, involving the Metropolitan
police's anti-terrorist branch, Special Branch and MI5.

Massacre

The men were detained under section 14 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act 1989,
which is concerned with the commission, instigation or preparation of offences.

Scotland Yard said the arrests were not linked to any unsolved terrorist
incident in Britain.

One of those arrested is believed to head a London-based group who are outspoken
opponents of the regime in Saudi Arabia.

One of the Egyptians being held is believed to have featured in a "Call to
Combat Terrorism" catalogue released by the government in Cairo in November last
year following the massacre of 58 tourists in Luxor, which was blamed on the
Islamic militant group Gamma al-Islamiya.

The Egyptian government, which suggested after the attack that those who planned
it were based in Britain, has described the London arrests as "something
positive".


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              18 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 1998

All at sea

BYLINE: JEANETTE PAGE

SECTION: The Guardian Travel Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 392 words


October is cruise month. Which is good news for the 640,000 people in Britain
who take to the seas every year. The UK is the second largest cruising nation,
after the US, with a growth of 25 per cent a year, and it's the fastest -growing
holiday choice here. But, before we run away with ourselves, we are talking
about just 1 per cent of the population.

Still, for all those cruisers, having your own month means the Passenger
Shipping Association (PSA) is holding roadshows up and down the country with
cruise line companies giving presentations and advice, as well as taking
bookings, of course. (Free tickets from the PSA office on 0171-436 2449).

So who cruises? It was once for the rich, blue-rinse brigade, but the age
profile of passengers has changed. Now a younger wave of holidaymakers mixing
the sea, shopping and speedy sightseeing has moved in. Cruise passengers are
getting younger every year. The average age has dropped from nearly 60 to just
below 55.

While cruising once traded on its elitism, the entry of tour operators such as
Thomson and Airtours has brought cruising to the package-holiday masses. More
than 40 cruise ships are being built worldwide to add to the 200 already on the
high seas. Twenty-nine of the new ones are in the megaship class - that's 60,000
tons-plus carrying 1,500 to 3,500 passengers.

While the staple brochure destinations remain the Med and the Caribbean, cruise
operators are also broadening their appeal by offering more unusual ports of
call or by tailoring their services to specific groups of holiday -makers.
Scandinavia and the Atlantic Islands are also popular, with Alaska, the
trans-Panama Canal and the Far East not far behind. In river cruising, the Nile
remains the number one choice despite last year's terrorist attack in Luxor.
Disney's liner draws young families into cruising to the Bahamas from Port
Canaveral along with a three-night stay at the Orlando theme park.

The average price of a cruise in 1997 was pounds 1,169. Yet try telling the
average family of four that a total bill of pounds 2,500 to pounds 3,500 makes
cruising an affordable alternative. Ticket prices usually include all meals, but
rarely extend to essential extras such as drinks and shore excursions, which can
cost anything from pounds 15 to pounds 70 per person per day.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              19 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 28, 1998, Monday

BRITISH MINISTER AT GAA CLINCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 243 words


BRITAIN'S Sports Minister Tony Banks was among a capacity crowd at Croke Park
yesterday to watch Galway beat Co Kildare in the all-Ireland GAA football final.

Galway emerged on top by one goal and 14 points (total 17 points) to one goal
and 10 points (13 points).

Mr Banks described the game as "a tremendous sporting event", adding: "It was
really exciting. I am privileged to be here and glad I came."

Other spectators at the match were Eire President Mary McAleese and Premier
Bertie Ahern.

Before the game, the GAA was urged to drop a ban on a soccer fixture on its
ground in Omagh, in aid of families of the victims of last month's mass-murder
terrorist bomb attack.

Dublin Fine Gael opposition party MP Gay Mitchell said GAA supporters in Omagh
and the vast majority of fans across Ireland wanted the fund- raiser to go
ahead.

He said: "The legalistic attitude of the GAA central office is as indifferent to
the wishes of the vast majority of the people of this island as the recent
actions of some loyalist cliques."

The GAA ruled out the soccer charity match because of its ban on "foreign" games
being played on grounds under its control.

Mr Mitchell said: "Irrespective of the contents of the constitution and rules of
the GAA, the wishes of the local club should be given precedence.

"This legalistic ruling has nothing to do with sport and community, but has
everything to do with outdated sectarian divisions."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                         September 30, 1998, Wednesday

ADAMS PASSES THE POUNDS 10M SECURITY TEST;
 LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE: GERRY ADAMS ATTENDS CONFERENCE

BYLINE: James Hardy Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 425 words


SINN Fein leader Gerry Adams was yesterday ushered through a ring of steel
protecting the Labour conference from terrorist attack.

He was escorted into the Blackpool Winter Gardens by two plain clothes Special
Branch officers to hear Tony Blair's speech.

Police have thrown a pounds 10million security cordon around the conference
centre to guard against republican bombers.

Mr Adams walked briskly past exhibitors' stalls - drawing surprised glances from
delegates - and made for the overflow auditorium to watch the speech on a giant
screen.

He sat impassively through the 50-minute address, smiling only once when the
Prime Minister launched a scathing attack on the Tories.

The Republican hardman briefly applauded when Mr Blair and Cherie appeared on
stage to greet the party faithful.

The two men will meet in Blackpool today in a new bid to break the deadlock over
the hand-in of IRA weapons.

The Premier will also talk to Ulster First Minister David Trimble and his deputy
Seamus Mallon - who both listened to the speech in the main conference hall.

Mr Adams called on the Government to push through the Good Friday peace deal in
full and said guns could be handed over only if all its proposals were
implemented.

He said: "I accept that decommissioning and taking guns out of Irish politics is
part of what we are trying to do. But it was not a precondition.

"Had it been a precondition I'd never have signed up to the agreement. Although
I want all the guns out of Irish politics I could not have delivered that."

Unionists want weapons surrendered immediately as the price of Sinn Fein joining
the power-sharing Cabinet of the new Ulster assembly. But the Sinn Fein leader
took an uncompromising line at a conference fringe meeting last night with a new
call for an end to the partition of Ireland.

Mr Adams declared: "Just as in recent years Irish republicans have had to look
hard at our politics, reflect on our mistakes and seek new ways of advancing our
goal of Irish unity, the British Government must also look beyond current
policy.

"The aim of democratic Irish opinion in Britain and internationally must be to
seek a change in British policy from one of upholding the union to one of ending
the union."

Sinn Fein MPs have never taken up seats at West-minster and Republican leaders
have never before attended a major party conference.

Ministers believe the presence of the three Ulster party leaders in Blackpool
offers a new chance to get the peace process back on track.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEARANCE: Sinn Fein's Adams at Blackpool yesterday Picture: PHIL;
SPENCER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              21 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 9, 1998

Tough talk masks lack of debate;
REACTION OF PUBLIC/ Despite bellicose political warnings to Milosevic, there is
a passive mood in Britain.  Richard Norton-Taylor says it is being blamed on
scepticism about politicians' rhetoric, compassion fatigue and even boredom

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 796 words


EVERY day this week Tony Blair has taken time out during his China trip to issue
warnings to President Slobodan Milosevic. "There is no doubt at all," he said on
Wednesday, "that we have to take action to prevent a humanitarian disaster".

Yesterday he chastised the international community for failing to send a strong
enough message to the Serb leader. Only a strong message, he said, "backed up by
the will to use force if necessary" would bring him back into line.

At EU meetings in Luxembourg and Nato meetings in Brussels, Robin Cook, the
Foreign Secretary, has echoed the tough talk.

Back home, despite the prominence given to the Kosovo crisis in the media, there
is silence, no polls and almost no debate.

It is in marked contrast to the public reaction to Serb massacres in Bosnia,
when Douglas Hurd, then foreign secretary, repeatedly scolded the media for
trying to bounce the Government into military action.

Commentators yesterday put the passive public mood down to scepticism about
politicians' rhetoric, compassion fatigue - even boredom.

"Superficially, it is puzzling that the debate in Britain is muted though there
is widespread concern about a humanitarian tragedy unfolding," Donald Anderson,
Labour chairman of the Commons foreign affairs committee said yesterday.
"Perhaps the explanation is a weariness of any involvement in Balkan confusion,
of 'yes perhaps' as far as bombing certain strategic targets are concerned but
no appetite for going beyond that".

Backbench MPs in their Westminster offices preparing for the new session say
that Kosovo barely crops up in conversation, though they say that if Parliament
was sitting, there would be more of a debate.

Whether it would make any difference is a moot point. The Government has an
enormous majority. Among the official opposition, Paddy Ashdown has been
strongly in favour of intervention in Kosovo, while Michael Howard, the shadow
foreign secretary, merely chides Mr Cook for saying a lot and doing nothing.

There are other factors. "Britain is quite used to international commitments,
there is a traditional feeling in government that it need not worry very much
and that the public will understand," says one commentator close to Whitehall.

"Britain is a warrior race," observed Dana Allin , an American research fellow
at the London-based International Institute of Strategic Studies.

This gives the Government more room for manoeuvre, encouraging Mr Blair, Mr
Cook, and George Robertson, the Defence Secretary, to talk in confident tones.
Their aggressive approach, however genuine, is inextricably linked to the Labour
government's extraordinarily close relationship with the Clinton administration.

Yet these ties, and the threat that the two allies will go it alone if
necessary, is not without risk. Their warlike noises directed at Saddam Hussein
earlier this year, talking up the expectation of air strikes against Iraq, were
followed by a questionable deal negotiated by the UN secretary general, Kofi
Annan, and, not long after, by the disclosure that the Clinton administration -
along with Britain - told frustrated UN arms inspectors to back off.

Mr Blair was the first to support the US bombing of Afghanistan and Sudan in
August in retaliation for terrorist attacks on US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania.

It subsequently emerged that the Foreign Office and Mr Cook were less than
convinced that the Khartoum factory hit by US cruise missiles was producing
chemical warfare precursors.

It has now emerged that Mr Clinton did not consult his chiefs of staff, the CIA,
the FBI, or Janet Reno, the attorney-general, before ordering the attacks.

Some of Britain's Nato allies in Europe, no doubt for self-serving reasons,
criticised Mr Cook this week for aggressive rhetoric against Mr Milosevic in
June - a tactic, they claimed, which hindered, rather than helped, the prospect
of meaningful negotiations over Kosovo.

While British ministers have talked tough, their senior official advisers and
the chiefs of staff, have been concerned about the consequences of initial air
strikes against Serbian radar and ground-to-air missiles both politically and on
the ground.

Though military chiefs appear confident about the ability of Nato air strikes to
destroy any threat from Serb forces, they know that a decision to attack will
inevitably lead to the involvement of ground troops, for an indefinite period.

After all, Nato forces would go in on the back of a UN security council
resolution, not just to take out Serb military targets, but for humanitarian
objectives.

"It is not like dropping a few bombs in Afganistan and Sudan," says Jonathan
Eyal, Balkan expert at the Royal United Services Institute.


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 10, 1998

Pressure mounts in Kosovo

SECTION: Supplement: Daily News, Pg.19

LENGTH: 234 words


BRITAIN and the United States today stepped up pressure on Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic to resolve the Kosovo crisis.

US envoy Richard Holbrooke met the Yugoslav leader in Belgrade yesterday for
last-ditch talks to head-off Nato military action in the province.

Returning to his hotel early today as the threat of airstrikes loomed, Mr
Holbrooke said: "These are serious discussions and the situation is serious."

The envoy was today travelling to the Kosovo capital Pristina for talks with the
main ethnic Albanian leader Ibrahim Rugova.

He is then expected to return to Belgrade for more talks with Milosevic in an
effort to persuade him to withdraw Serb forces from the province.

Hundreds of people have been killed and tens of thousands have been driven from
their homes since Milosevic launched a crackdown in Kosovo last February.

His target is the ethnic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army, which is fighting for
independence from Serbia, the main republic of Yugoslavia.

Milosevic has defied UN Orders to withdraw his forces, claiming they are needed
to prevent new attacks by Kosovo Liberation Army "terrorists."

Today's talks were taking place against a background of increasingly hawkish
statements by senior British and US figures, led by Foreign Secretary Robin
Cook.

He who warned Nato was ready to unleash massive air strikes to cripple the
Serbian military machine.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              23 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                October 10, 1998

Cook warns Nato is ready for air strikes

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 299 words


BRITAIN and the United States today stepped up pressure on Yugoslav President
Slobodan Milosevic to resolve the Kosovo crisis.

US envoy Richard Holbrooke met the Yugoslav leader in Belgrade yesterday for
last-ditch talks to head-off Nato military action in the province.

Returning to his hotel early today as the threat of airstrikes loomed, Mr
Holbrooke said: "These are serious discussions and the situation is serious."

The envoy was today travelling to the Kosovo capital Pristina for talks with the
main ethnic Albanian leader Ibrahim Rugova.

He is then expected to return to Belgrade for more talks with Milosevic in an
effort to persuade him to withdraw Serb forces from the province.

Hundreds of people have been killed and tens of thousands have been driven from
their homes since Milosevic launched a crackdown in Kosovo last February.

His target is the ethnic Albanian Kosovo Liberation Army, which is fighting for
independence from Serbia, the main republic of Yugoslavia.

Milosevic has defied UN orders to withdraw his forces, claiming they are needed
to prevent new attacks by Kosovo Liberation Army "terrorists."

Today's talks were taking place against a background of increasingly hawkish
statements by senior British and US figures, led by Foreign Secretary Robin
Cook.

He warned that Nato was ready to unleash massive air strikes to cripple the
Serbian military machine.

US President Bill Clinton was said to want the Nato allies to sign an
"activation order" by the end of the week, authorising air strikes and putting
allied aircraft under central Nato command.

Mr Holbrooke wants Milosevic to order an immediate end to hostilities and a
withdrawal of forces and heavy armaments to levels before March, before the
government crackdown on Kosovo started.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              24 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 12, 1998

General

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 900 words


JANUARY: In Chile, 30,000 are reported dead when a massive earthquake destroys
two cities. In Spain, Franco sweeps into Barcelona - thousands have fled,
fearing the fall of the city. It's reported that in Britain, the RAF is taking
delivery of more than 400 planes a month. The IRA is busy bombing Britain's
mainland cities - and the small town of Alnwick in Northumberland. Australian
feminist writer Germaine Greer is born in Melbourne - she will be best known for
her revolutionary book The Female Eunuch. Renowned poet W. B. Yeats, the "Voice
of Ireland", dies.

FEBRUARY: There are furious scenes in the Commons when the British Government
recognises General Franco as Spain's ruler. Winston Churchill accuses the
government of breaking faith with Palestine in the new constitution which says
it should not become a Jewish state. The hunt goes on for IRA terrorists after
bomb blasts at London Tube stations. In the US, nylon stockings go on sale for
the first time. Pope Pius XI dies after a reign marked by efforts to heal the
rift between church and state - his successor will be Pope Pius XII (Eugenio
Pacelli), previously secretary of state at the Vatican.

MARCH: In Britain, 20 IRA terrorists are jailed for 20 years for conspiring to
cause explosions. As the white flag is hoisted over Madrid, Franco declares that
the Spanish Civil War is over and that he is the country's new leader. The first
commercial oil find in Britain is in Eakring, Nottinghamshire. In New York, it's
said that Hitler's nephew is calling him "a menace".

APRIL: In Britain, it's announced that, should hostilities begin, 2,500,000
children will be evacuated; 80,000 air-raid shelters are being made every week.
At the cinema, Merle Oberon and Laurence Olivier enchant in William Wyler's
Wuthering Heights.

MAY: Britain's farmers are being urged to plough up their pastures and use them
for food production - they will be paid GBP 2 per acre. After the restriction of
Jewish immigration into Palestine, 10,000 Jewish women march through Jerusalem
to present a petition "written in the blood and tears of Jewish womanhood
throughout the world". In Oxford, the first woman fellow at a male college is
Miss A. Bradbury, bursar at Balliol.

JUNE: King George and Queen Elizabeth visit the US and receive a sensational
welcome - Elizabeth is dubbed "Queen of Hearts". Pan American launches the first
scheduled passenger flights across the Atlantic with Boeing 314 flying boats.
The liner Mauretania sets off from Liverpool on her maiden voyage. Jackie
Stewart is born in Strathclyde - as a motor racing ace he will be three times
world champion and the most celebrated British driver of his era.

JULY: Americans amaze Wimbledon crowds when Bobby Riggs wins the two major men's
titles and the mixed doubles on his first visit and Alice Marble plays a hat
-trick in the ladies' matches. The British government warns that the thousands
of illegal Jewish immigrants entering Palestine are stirring up Arab revolt. In
Tibet, a five-year-old boy is chosen as the new Dalai Lama.

AUGUST: Coventry is the latest victim of IRA bombs - five die and 50 are injured
in the worst atrocity so far. In a letter to President Roosevelt, Albert
Einstein warns that Germany may be working on the development of an atomic bomb.
In London, art treasures are moved from galleries, museums and Westminster Abbey
to a safe place. Judy Garland melts hearts when she sings Over the Rainbow in
The Wizard of Oz.

SEPTEMBER: The British War Budget raises income tax to its highest-ever figure
of 7s 6d in the pound. Imperial Airways suspends passenger bookings - but there
will be plenty of bookings for ENSA, the forces' entertainment organisation,
just formed. The father of psychoanalysis, Sigmund Freud, dies in English exile.

OCTOBER: More than 800 are feared dead as the battleship Royal Oak is sunk at
Scapa Flow - we thought her armour would repel torpedoes. Not long afterwards,
enemy planes reach Britain for the first time and bomb a naval base at Rosyth. A
government White Paper documents the horrors of Nazi concentration camps - "The
treatment of inmates is reminiscent of the darkest ages in the history of man,"
it says. Lee Harvey Oswald is born in New Orleans - in 1963, he will be accused
of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas, Texas, and be shot
dead by nightclub owner Jack Ruby.

NOVEMBER: Britain announces the rationing of butter and bacon from next month -
sugar and meat will follow. The first bombs fall on British soil in the
Shetlands - and kill a rabbit. London's Piccadilly Circus and main railway
stations are the latest targets for the IRA. A new type of magnetic mine laid by
special U-boats is causing devastation in the North Sea. Seven people are killed
when a bomb is thrown in Munich in an attempt to assassinate Hitler.

DECEMBER: There's high drama at sea in Uruguay when the pride of the German
fleet, Graf Spee, is conquered in a fierce battle with the British cruisers
Exeter, Ajax and Achilles. Hitler gives the order that she must be scuttled
rather than surrender, and as she sinks, her captain shoots himself. Cinema hits
this year are the epic Gone with the Wind and The Hunchback of Notre Dame.
London's Lyceum Theatre closes, ringing down the curtain on Gielgud's Hamlet;
and Ivor Novello's The Dancing Years quits Drury Lane to make way for ENSA
entertainers.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1998 Western Morning News

                              25 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                October 15, 1998

No longer lording it?;
 Peerage reform: The right by birth must go

LENGTH: 596 words


FEW people in Northern Ireland will be upset by the government's proposals to
abolish the voting rights of hereditary peers or to reform the House of Lords.
As Baroness Jay said, introducing a two-day debate that attracted unfamiliar
dukes, earls and bishops from their stately homes, it is time for them to say
"thank you and goodbye", after 700 years of privilege.

They will still have their titles, and may sit a few years longer in the musty
House, but they will no longer have a right, by birth, to be legislators. There
is no place, in a modern, multi-cultural democracy for a chamber still dominated
by the ancestors of royal favourites or statesmen dating back hundreds of years,
providing an automatic majority for one party.

The Lords has never claimed to be representative of the mass of the British
people, but those with Northern Ireland connections show just how
unrepresentative it has become. In an era of equality between the two traditions
here, unionists are in a strong majority, with only Lord Fitt - a laudable
anomaly - taking anything approaching a nationalist stance. The introduction of
life peers has provided some middle ground, but former UUP leaders predominate
and there has been no recognition of the splits in unionism over the past 30
years.

From Northern Ireland's point of view, it will be important that representative
voices from all parts of the UK should be heard in the new chamber, as never
before. Devolution is about to change the face of the nation, here and
elsewhere, and a second chamber can help to air special regional problems and
provide a new focus for national concerns. If there is to be religious
representation, it cannot be limited to the Anglican hierarchy.

The Commons will remain at the heart of British democracy but the Senate in
Dublin demonstrates the valuable role that a broadly-based, non-partisan chamber
can play. Here that function will be provided by the Civic Forum provided for in
the Agreement. Like Britain's new second chamber, it must be more than a talking
shop.

All change

Security cutbacks: Sizing up the future

EVERYONE in Northern Ireland is having to adapt to change, but no one more so
than the security forces. After acting as the front line in defence of law and
order for the past 30 years, the RUC is coming to terms with a new situation.
The terrorist threat has not been eliminated, but it has been scaled down
considerably as Northern Ireland embraces a new future, and everyone welcomes
the more relaxed atmosphere.

But for individual police officers, and prison warders too, the danger of
terrorist attack has been replaced by a new threat - redundancy. If permanent
peace is established, both the RUC and the Prison Service will inevitably face a
major reduction in numbers. Some 1,100 of the existing 2,500 prison officer jobs
are on the line, while RUC strength could ultimately be reduced from 13,000 to
around 5,000.

While police reform is still under debate, the rationalisation of the Prison
Service is a more immediate prospect, and the reason is not hard to see. The
prisoner release programme is proceeding apace, and by the end of the year, half
the inmates at the Maze will have been set free. If the war really is over then
nobody can argue that we need the same number of police and prison officers as
we have at present. But when it comes to redundancy, those who have given such
courageous and dedicated service on behalf of the whole community over so many
years have the right to expect honourable and generous treatment.


LOAD-DATE: October 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              26 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           October 17, 1998, Saturday

ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALISTS ARE 'BIGGEST THREAT'

BYLINE: Michael Clarke Special Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 450 words


Islamic fundamentalists are likely to pose the biggest threat to democracy in
Britain in future, superseding the dangers posed by Irish terrorism and far
-right groups, the author of a report warned yesterday.  The report - Extremism
in Europe - names six groups with support organisations in Britain linked to
foreign terrorism. Mr Michael Whine, author of the section on Britain, warned:
"Islamic terrorism has become a very much greater threat and if one looks
forward it looks to be the biggest threat to safety and also to democracy." The
report, published by the Paris -based European Centre for Research and Action on
Racism and anti-Semitism and funded by the European Commission, lists groups
active in Britain with links to terrorist organisations abroad.  New emergency
legislation rushed through this summer to tackle terrorists based here but
planning attacks abroad will help to stem the problem, Mr Whine said.  The new
offence of planning terrorist acts abroad would be important, he believed.  But
the clause banning fund-raising for terrorism abroad will be more difficult to
enforce, Mr Whine added.  "Often the fund-raising will ostensibly be for
charity, for widows and orphans or hospitals.  "It's very difficult to prove
that once the money gets abroad, some of it is actually being spent on
terrorism." Mr Whine said far-right political groups like the British National
Party remained "marginal" in Britain and were losing members.  But there were
worrying signs of increasing links between extremist groups across Europe and
with white supremacist organisations in North America. He gave the example of a
letter bomb campaign mounted two years ago by the neo-Nazi British group Combat
18.  Members of the group went to Denmark and employed a Dane, a Pole and an
Austrian to make bombs which were eventually posted from Sweden to targets
across Europe.  Far-right parliamentary parties across Europe were also forging
links through the Euronat network launched this year by French National Front
leader Mr Jean Marie Le Pen. The report also highlights growing links between
US-based groups and racists in Europe.  The Klu Klux Klan has a minimal presence
in Britain and membership overlaps with the British Movement and Combat 18, Mr
Whine said.  Links with other US groups were highlighted by the fact that Combat
18's mailing address is a post office box in Raleigh, North Carolina, he added.
The Internet also provides an opportunity for fast transatlantic contact between
groups, and many of them maintain web sites.  Mr Whine warned that many
extremist groups looked forward to the Millennium and were likely to step up
their violent attacks in the next year.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              27 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 21, 1998

Fugitive MI5 man terms extradition 'political'

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 461 words


BRITAIN'S request to extradite David Shayler, the MI5 renegade locked up in a
Paris jail, should be rejected on the grounds that it is politically motivated,
his lawyers will tell a French court today.

In the Government's first formal application for his extradition, Mr Shayler's
lawyers will also argue that the Official Secrets Act - under which he will be
charged if he is returned to Britain - is in breach of the European Convention
on Human Rights, according to court documents seen by the Guardian.

Mr Shayler, who was arrested in Paris on August 1, claims he spoke out to reveal
malpractice and inefficiency in MI5.

One of the allegations that Mr Shayler made was that the security services were
involved in a plot to assassinate the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy.

Yesterday Col Gadafy said that Mr Shayler's claims were accurate.

"Of course it is true. There is many evidence and when the time comes we bring
this evidence," he said in an interview with the BBC.

His case may be helped by the Government's admission that disclosures he
revealed to the media "would not cause serious damage to the work of the
security service or national security".

Instead, the Government is basing its case on Mr Shayler's removal, from MI5
files, of more than 20 highly classified documents. The documents, however, were
never published, but returned to the security service.

Det Supt Martin Morrissey, the Special Branch officer in charge of the case,
will tell the court the documents included an analysis of Libyan links with the
IRA from 1971 to 1996, and telegrams sent to MI5 by foreign security services.

Mr Morrissey does not mention Mr Shayler's allegations of the plot against
Gadafy, or his claims that the Israeli bombing in 1994, and IRA bombings in the
City of London in the early 1990s, could have been avoided.  Defence lawyers
argue that by concentrating on the fact that Mr Shayler removed sensitive MI5
files, rather than on the revelations that were published in the Guardian and
elsewhere, the Government hopes to avoid having to respond to their claims that
he acted in the public interest and that his disclosures were merely
embarrassing.

In a statement yesterday from Le Sante prison in Paris, Mr Shayler said: "I
understand the Government may restrict its prosecution of me to allegations that
I showed journalists copies of documents, and not for the disclosures made to
the press."

He showed the documents to convince journalists he had worked for MI5 and to
reveal "MI5 malpractice".

John Wadham, Mr Shayler's British lawyer and director of Liberty, the civil
rights group, said that the Government was trying a "tactical ruse" only
possible because the Official Secrets Act was so draconian.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              28 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 26, 1998

Cook tells Libya to hand over suspects

BYLINE: Ian Black, Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 535 words


BRITAIN is warning Libya that patience is running out over the handover of the
Lockerbie suspects.

Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, told the Guardian that Britain had now given
Libya the guarantees it wanted on 11 out of 12 questions submitted via the
United Nations, regarding a trial of the suspects under Scottish law at The
Hague in the Netherlands. But it would never give in to Colonel Muammar Gadafy's
demand that the two be jailed outside Scotland if convicted.

"Our patience is not infinite," Mr Cook said, in his strongest public comments
yet. "Libya lobbied hard for a trial in a third country and expressed the strong
view that Scottish procedures were fair, but not in Scotland. We have met the
very request for which they lobbied. We now expect them to arrange for the
suspects to be handed over."

In August, Britain and the United States reversed their long-standing refusal to
hold a trial outside their jurisdictions, in response to the erosion of
international support for the UN sanctions imposed to force the surrender of
Abdul Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah.

But Libya had never before made any demand about where the two should serve
their sentences since indictments were issued in 1991.

"If they should be convicted it will be for an act of mass murder of the gravest
degree. It cannot be right that any court should enter into negotiations about
where the suspects would be willing to serve a sentence," he said.

"We are absolutely confident that Scottish prison standards compare favourably
with those of Libya. We will not, and should not, compromise on this point."

Without a speedy handover, Britain is likely to press for a tightening of the
sanctions before the 10th anniversary of the bombing on December 21. Two hundred
and seventy people were killed in the biggest act of terrorism in modern British
history.

Under the agreement between Britain, the Netherlands and the US, the Libyans
have already been told that no one summoned to give evidence will be arrested -
vital if Colonel Gadafy is to persuade his senior security chiefs that the
damage can be contained.

In a signal to Tripoli, Mr Cook made clear that Britain did not seek to
implicate the entire Libyan regime in the crime: "Our objective is to do justice
in terms of a trial of two people who have been accused of mass murder. We are
not in any sense seeking to stage some kind of political theatre here."

One of the 11 points agreed to, reaffirms Britain's readiness to call for the
immediate lifting of UN sanctions when the suspects land in the Netherlands.
Others assurances include:

no extradition of the two from the Netherlands to Scotland or the US;

Libyan lawyers can assist the Scottish defence team;

relatives will be able to visit the two daily during the trial;

any witness can be summoned by the defence, including British and US officials.

The Scottish Office, meanwhile, is making practical preparations for the trial,
to be held at an air base near The Hague.

Mr Cook said that if Libya did not surrender the men, there would be anger from
Arab and African states which had lobbied for a switch in Anglo-American policy.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 27, 1998

'Terrorists tried to smuggle deadly chemicals in felt tip pens'

SECTION: News, Pg.3

LENGTH: 162 words


AN ALLEGED Algerian terrorist who was part of a gang trying to smuggle deadly
chemicals out of Britain, was caught in Bristol, the Old Bailey heard. Sofiane
Souidi, aged 32, and two other Algerians plotted to take out the chemicals in
felt tip pens and milk containers, the court was told. The three appeared before
the Old Bailey accused of possessing articles for suspected terrorist
activities. All the accused, who deny the charge, are said to be members of the
terrorist organisation Groupe Islamique Arme. The chemicals could be used for a
number of activities, including making explosives and as a poison. The court
heard that the terrorist plot was smashed by the combined efforts of the British
Security Service and the police. Souidi stands trial along with Sofiane
Kebilene, 32, and Farid Boukemiche, 28. When Souidi was eventually caught in
Bristol in May last year, he said he had no idea what Kebilene or Boukemiche
were up to. The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              30 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 27, 1998, Tuesday

Poison in pens plot foiled by police

BYLINE: Pat Clarke

SECTION: NEWS; Page 12

LENGTH: 478 words


A COMBINED operation by the British security service and police uncovered a
terrorist cache in London. It was destined for Algeria to be used in acts of
political violence, an Old Bailey court heard yesterday.

Tins of baby food, stereo equipment and felt-tip pens were to be used in an
attempt to smuggle chemicals "which could be used for both the making of
explosives and for use in poisons to kill people," said Nigel Sweeney, for the
prosecution.

He alleged that seven consignments - including chemicals and other items - were
sent from Britain to Algeria between 1992 and 1997.

Armed police swooped on addresses in south London on 22 May last year and two
Algerians were arrested. A third was arrested in Bristol two months later.
"They were all in this country illegally and in possession of false identity
documents. They were either members or supporters of a group called the
Groupement Islamique Arme," said Mr Sweeney.

Their objective was to obtain materials, including chemicals and manuals on
explosives, weaponry and radio equipment, "for the purpose of smuggling them
from this country to Algeria for use by the GIA in . . . acts of terrorism", the
court was told.

The three - Sofiane Kebilene and Farid Boukemiche, both from Peckham, and
Sofiane Souidi, from Bermondsey, all in south London - have denied possession of
articles for suspected terrorist purposes on 22 May last year. Kebilene and
Souidi are in their early thirties and Boukemiche is in his late twenties.

Mr Sweeney alleged that the three's activities were financed by obtaining
banking facilities, credit and store cards fraudulently. Kebilene had at least
17 different bank accounts, both in his own name and in a false name, together
with 22 credit or store cards and a bank loan for more than pounds 18,000. By
the time of their arrest, cards and loans had been used to obtain goods and
services to the value of pounds 100,000.

The security service operation included a 66-day video and mobile surveillance,
and the interception of a second purchase of chemicals in March last year. These
chemicals were substituted with a harmless substance before being delivered to
the defendants, Mr Sweeney told the jury.

Part of the switched delivery was found at the Bermondsey address where Souidi
was living. Baby powder containers and felt-tip pens were also found there.
Their original contents had been replaced with part of what was believed to be
chemicals "so they could be smuggled to Algeria", said Mr Sweeney.

Books on guerrilla warfare, bombs and chemicals, and materials about the GIA,
were also allegedly discovered, along with pounds 20,000 in cash, FFr13,000, and
a small amount in dollars and German marks.

Mr Sweeney said that fingerprints of all three defendants were found on various
items.

The trial continues.


LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              31 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            November 6, 1998, Friday

CORNISH EXTREMISTS THREATEN TERROR CAMPAIGN

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 670 words


The Bishop of Truro fears extremists could launch terrorist attacks in a violent
campaign for a Cornish Assembly.

The Right Rev William Ind warned a group of people could start "blowing things
up or something like that" because they felt their views were not being heard.

A woman claiming to represent the Cornish Liberation Army said Government
buildings could be targeted if demands for an Assembly were not taken seriously.

Warning of violent attacks, Rt Rev Ind said: "I just have this feeling that is
for some of them the level of frustration which they are beginning to feel."

Net closes on foster family

Police believe they are closing in on a couple who disappeared with their two
foster children.

Mr Jeffrey Bramley and his wife, Jennifer, went missing from their home in
Ramsey, Cambridgeshire, with Jade Bennett, aged four, and Hannah Bennett, aged
three, in September.

There have been sightings of the couple all over Britain, but police today said
they were "extremely encouraged" by three separate reports from the Irish
Republic.

The couple disappeared after social services turned down their application to
adopt the two girls.

Their natural mother has appealed for them to return.

Police authority protesters

Two members of Merseyside Police Authority have resigned in protest at the new
Chief Constable's links with the Hillsborough disaster.

Councillors Frank Prendergast and Dave Martin, both members of the board who
appointed Norman Bettison, said they did not know about his role in the
investigation of the tragedy that killed 96 Liverpool football fans at the 1989
FA Cup semi-final.

Learning problems boost

The Government has launched a drive to cut red tape to boost education for
children with special educational needs.

Ministers want to see an end to protracted wrangles between parents and local
councils about how and where children with disabilities or behavioural
difficulties should be taught, and what support they should receive.

Schools Standards Minister Miss Estelle Morris announced a pounds 60million
boost to programmes ensuring that learning difficulties are dealt with earlier
in school.

Parents suffer pram rage

Pram rage is becoming a major hazard for parents, with intolerant shoppers
abusing stressed-out mothers and fathers trying to control tetchy toddlers.

In a survey by Mothercare, two-thirds of mothers reported being badly treated
while out with their youngsters in prams and pushchairs.

Orgasmic decision

A 27-year-old London mother has lost her Appeal Court bid to take action over
noisy neighbours.

The court ruled Yvonne Baxter must suffer the noise of neighbours making love,
playing music and arguing because she has no right to take action against her
council landlord over her sub-standard accommodation.

Her home was built before London councils were compelled by law to instal sound
insulation.

That's Life as Esther moves

Broadcaster Esther Rantzen is to end her 30-year exclusive association with the
BBC after signing up for a new ITV series.

But she will present a new series of her BBC2 discussion show Esther.

Mujahidin 'trained' here

A former SAS soldier's claims that Afghanistan guerrillas were smuggled into
Britain for training during their conflict with Russia are to be raised in the
Commons.

Ken Connor, who served with the regiment for 23 years between 1963 and 1986, has
claimed in a book that Mujahidin fighters had covert training in the north of
England and Scotland.

ps Post Script

British Airways' first jumbo jet, which has flown the equivalent of more than
halfway to the sun, has made its final flight.

Delivered in May 1970, the Boeing 747 was flown from Heathrow airport to BA's
Cardiff maintenance facility prior to its sale to an American company.

The aircraft has travelled more than 51 million miles, clocked up 102,000 hours
of service, carried around six million passengers and completed nearly 21,000
flights.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              32 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       November 6, 1998, Friday Edition 1

Firms in North join mission to Egypt -;
Delegation will visit Cairo and Alexandria

BYLINE: By Moira Finn

SECTION: EXPORT JOURNAL, Pg. 45

LENGTH: 417 words


   NORTH-East companies are among 100 British businesses joining in the
largest-ever UK trade mission to visit Egypt.

The trade delegation will visit Alexandria and Cairo this month - marking the
start of a three-year Connect Egypt campaign, which Trade and Industry Secretary
Peter Mandelson launched this week.

Mr Mandelson also unveiled the establishment of a new Egyptian-British Business
Council to strengthen trade and investment links between the two countries, and
particularly among SMEs.

Welding equipment-maker Newarc Equipment Ltd, based on the Walker Riverside in
Newcastle, is among the companies taking part in the high-profile mission.

Marketing manager Ron Gordon said the company, which already trades with a
number of Middle Eastern countries and in the Far East, has been planning to
enter the Egypt market for more than a year.

"In early 1997, we saw that the market in South East Asia was slowing down and
we identified Egypt as a potential new market because it is growing fast with a
lot of construction activity," said Mr Gordon.

He said the fact that the country has suffered from terrorist attacks did not
discourage Newarc from pursuing business partners there.

"Realistically, you could say no market is safe. Look at Russia or Malaysia," he
said.

Mr Mandelson called the Egyptian market a top 10 priority for the UK, with
exports from Britain to the North African country increasing by 85pc over the
past five years, from £252m in 1992 to £498m in 1997.

"British and Egyptian companies are already working successfully together.
However, there is a great deal more that could be done.

"In particular, we need to focus our efforts on the needs of small and
medium-sized enterprises which can benefit greatly from strengthening bilateral
commercial ties," Mr Mandelson said.

In addition to the trade mission, other campaign activities include a new web
site, the publication of a quarterly magazine and plans for a Delta Road Show,
which will visit six business centres in the Delta region of Egypt next spring.

The main UK exports to Egypt are machinery and machine parts, scientific
instruments, petroleum products, power-generating equipment, medical and
pharmaceutical products, telecoms and office equipment

In addition to Newarc Equipment Ltd, other North-East companies on the trade
mission include Dabico [Europe] of Stockton, Kockums Computer Systems [UK] Ltd
of Wallsend, Mercintel of Newcastle, Microbac Ltd

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              33 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            November 6, 1998, Friday

Low-cost EDS has taken over the Government by stealth

BYLINE: Kimberly McDonald and Jason Nisse

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 1173 words


Kimberly McDonald and Jason Nisse explain why life after GM has brought
accelerating problems

If you want to make Alan Stevens unhappy, just mention Ross Perot. The UK head
of EDS, the giant American computer services group, is tired of hearing mention
of the Texan billionaire - famous for his homespun wisdom and failed
presidential campaigns.

Though Perot founded Electronic Data Systems, as it was then called, in 1962, he
left in 1986. Stevens happily points out that he never worked for Perot, joining
EDS when it bought SD-Scicon eight years ago, and that there is hardly a person
in the British arm of the business who was on board while Perot steered the
ship.

However, it is Perot's name which comes up most often when EDS is mentioned.

The joke in computing circles is that where Perot failed in his attempt to gain
control of the US Government through the ballot box, EDS has succeeded in the UK
through stealth.

Yesterday it was awarded the prime contract in the Pounds 7 billion Accord
programme, which will automate the Benefits Agency, having already won the
largest information technology contract handed out by the UK Government, the
Pounds 1.5 billion outsourcing of the Inland Revenue back office. EDS also has
deals with the Employment Service, the National Air Traffic Control Service
(though that is in danger of being cancelled), Wandsworth Council (which is
actually being cancelled), Brent Council and London Transport. In the next few
weeks it will learn whether it has won contracts to automate the Department of
Trade and Industry and to take over the running of National Savings. And it
recently kicked up a fuss because it lost a deal with the Lord Chancellor's
Department to computerise magistrates' courts.

Indeed, you can spend your life dealing with EDS without ever knowing it. The
company admits that more than half its Pounds 1 billion a year turnover in the
UK comes from government sources, and MPs have raised questions about whether
EDS has too much influence over our working lives. Yet when EDS tenders, it is
usually cheaper than its rivals.

Criticism of EDS's stranglehold on government IT work irritates Stevens almost
as much as mention of Perot. But not quite as much. Last month EDS shed the last
vestiges of the Perot era by allowing male employees to wear khakis and polo
shirts, and women to wear matching trouser suits. Perot's fashion code survived
12 years longer than he did. Workers were expected to sport dark suits, lace-up
shoes, short haircuts and (in the US) no facial hair. The facial hair taboo was
dropped in the UK when EDS bought SD-Scicon, not least because half the target
company's board wore beards. Despite EDS's more relaxed policy, jeans are still
taboo, a spokesman confirmed. One Wall Street analyst said: "They have a
mainframe mentality in a PC and Internet world."

The headquarters of EDS in Plano, Texas, is known as the "god dome". It is a
fortress-like complex designed to fend off terrorist attacks and nab corporate
spies. But despite its continued ability to land multibillion-dollar contracts,
analysts say EDS's biggest threat is the company itself.

It has repeatedly missed Wall Street expectations since 1996, when it was spun
off from General Motors with much fanfare. Since last year, earnings have fallen
some 15 per cent. That is a long way from the 15 per cent annual earnings growth
that became an EDS trademark after Perot sold the company to GM in 1984 for $
2.6 billion (Pounds 1.56 billion).

But life after GM has been difficult for EDS. Many of the financial setbacks
stem from about a dozen big contracts in which costs exceeded profitability by $
80 million. GM has cut many of its ties with EDS. To replace this business it
has won big contracts to run other companies' computer systems, but has been
unable to turn those into profits as it fights rising costs and pays more to
attract and keep workers.

With bidding for contracts becoming more competitive, and costs on the rise,
profit margins are being squeezed. That includes work EDS still does for GM, its
biggest customer, which is establishing an arm's-length relationship with its
former subsidiary.

"They've won contracts based on a low cost, but the contracts don't provide for
wage inflation, and the costs for technical workers has soared," said Moshe
Katri, an analyst at Warburg Dillon Reed. Meanwhile, such upstarts as Computer
Sciences, whose annual sales are less than half the $ 14.4 billion that EDS
reported last year, has outbid it on new contracts. So has old rival IBM.

Analysts say another basic problem lies in its contract with GM, which
stipulates that EDS reduce its billing rates every year by some 15-20 per cent.

Since GM still accounts for about 25 per cent of revenues, EDS has been unable
to offset its declining income from GM with continued increases in other
businesses. But the company is making some progress. In the most recent quarter,
non-GM revenue, which includes systems integration work and fees from its
consulting arm AT Kearney, rose 22 per cent.

Frustrated by a languishing stock price, in May, a group of shareholders led by
CalPers, the Californian pension fund, and accounting for 21 per cent of EDS's
equity, voted to strip Les Alberthal, chairman and CEO, of his position. Mr
Alberthal said he would step down as soon as a successor was named. Rumours have
mentioned executives from GTE, the telecoms giant, and Oracle, the software
company. However, the search committee has yet to find anyone. EDS has also been
without a chief financial officer since March. That leaves it with a gaping
leadership hole that continues to impede its progress, according to analysts.

"These days, it is very important to have senior management involved in securing
large contracts, and not having a clear CEO hinders that," said Richard K.
Weingarten, an analyst at Salomon Smith Barney.

"Investors want proof of a credible transition and a clear strategy. They can't
do that until a CEO is on board," Katri said.

Ironically, the uncertainty in Texas puts more emphasis on the UK side to do
well. Last year, when EDS was trying to cut costs, it announced a redundancy
programme to cut 9,000 jobs. In the UK this was translated into an attempt to
hold on to staff members and cut the number of staff on temporary contracts.

With all the outsourcing deals struck by EDS, the actual UK headcount has risen
as former public sector employees join the EDS team.

The transformation was handled in a rather hamfisted way with a memo going round
from John Bateman, the chairman of the Europe, Middle East and Asia region,
asking staff members to identify posts that might be eliminated. "You need to be
involved in slimming the organisation, because it's your own job you're
preserving," it concluded, chillingly.

Britain is the main engine of growth for EDS. The UK Government is set to become
in the 1990s what GM was to EDS in the 1980s. Maybe it should be nationalised.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 7, 1998

Israelis set new terms after car bomb

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 442 words


ISRAEL suspended the latest peace moves yesterday after a car bomb rocked the
centre of Jerusalem.

It killed two Palestinian suicide bombers and injured 21 Israeli shoppers. The
bombers died when their car exploded after ramming a stall at the entrance to
the city's main produce market.

The bombing occurred within a mile of an Israeli cabinet meeting which was set
to approve last month's land-for-security deal, agreed in America. The car
exploded in an area crowded with shoppers hours before the start of the Jewish
Sabbath.

Israeli Premier Benjamin Netanyahu immediately abandoned the meeting and a short
time later, ignoring Palestinian pleas, he imposed new conditions before Israel
ratifies the deal.

Britain, the US, and France were among countries who were quick to condemn the
attack. US President Bill Clinton, who had presided over the latest accord,
urged Mr Netanyahu and Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat not to let the terrorist
attack break their resolve to achieve peace.

At the White House, Mr Clinton said: "I know I speak for all Americans ... to
express my sympathy to the people of Israel who this morning were once again the
target of a vicious terrorist attack."

However, he added: "When Prime Minister Netanyahu and Chairman Arafat signed the
Wye River agreement, they knew they would face this moment.

"They knew when they went home that both of them would be under more danger and
the terrorists would target innocent civilians. They knew they would have to
muster a lot of courage in their people to stick to the path of peace in the
face of repeated acts of provocation."

Mr Arafat said he was committed to combating violence by Islamic militants. "We
condemn this criminal act, whose aim is to derail the peace process. At the same
time we are committed to implementing the requirements of the agreements in
pursuing, fighting and arresting these people," he said on Israeli television.

British Foreign Office Minister Derek Fatchett said such terrorist attacks were
perpetrated by ex- tremists determined to undermine peace: it was vital they
were not allowed to achieve their aims.

French Foreign Minister Hubert Vedrine urged the Israelis to implement the
land-for-security deal rather than play for time.

However, the Israeli cabinet said it would not resume its debate or hold a vote
on the accord until the Palestinian Authority took steps against terrorism. It
also said it would not resume the ratification process until Mr Arafat clarified
the procedure for revoking clauses in the Palestinian Liberation Organisation
founding charter calling for Israel's destruction.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            November 8, 1998, Sunday

Disaster alert for 2000 bug

BYLINE: MARIE WOOLF Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page 2

LENGTH: 244 words


A SECRET Cabinet disaster unit, only activated in times of dire civil
emergencies such as nuclear leaks, hostage situations or foreign invasion, is to
be mobilised on 31 December 1999 to cope with the fall- out from the millennium
bug.

The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, will also be put on alert to co-ordinate a
strategy to cope with chaos on Britain's roads, airports and hospitals.

The Government fears that the ordinary emergency services will be unable to deal
with the mayhem caused by the possible national shutdown of lifts, air traffic
control systems and hospital equipment.

It plans to put the Civil Contingency Unit, run by a secretive cabinet group
known as Cobra, on alert to deal with the situation. The unit, which has the
power to assemble the heads of the Army, Navy, Royal Air Force, security
services and SAS - for emergency strategy meetings - was last mobilised in 1994
during a training exercise to prepare for a possible nuclear attack by
terrorists.

Government sources confirmed that the unit has been put on alert for New Year's
Eve.

"We are doing very well with our preparations to deal with the bug in Government
departments. Plans are ahead of schedule with hospitals," a senior government
aide said.

The millennium bug could cause a shutdown of many of Britain's computer-
operated systems because the chips are not programmed to recognise the year
2000. Analysts fear the bug will lead to chaos.


LOAD-DATE: November 09, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            November 9, 1998, Monday

PRINCE PAYS HIS TRIBUTE AT WAR GRAVE CEMETERY

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 439 words


The Prince of Wales observed Remembrance Sunday 1,300 miles from home in
Macedonia, close to the border with war-torn Kosovo.

In a small British War Grave cemetery at Skopje, the Prince laid a poppy wreath
bearing his white plume beneath a simple stone Cross and the inscription, "Their
Name Liveth For Ever".

At 10.50am, he kept a minute's silence after a Macedonian bugler had sounded the
Last Post.

Army Chaplain the Rev Peter Howson, who had flown in from Aldershot to lead the
Anglican service, prayed "to give wisdom and strength to the Queen".

There followed a Greek Orthodox remembrance, conducted by Archbishop Mihajl of
Ohrind and Macedonia.

The ceremony, with candles and incense, ended with the symbolic sprinkling of
wine to commemorate the dead souls.

The Prince, wearing medals, badges of the British Legion and the Welsh Guards,
regimental tie and a poppy in the lapel of his dark overcoat, stood solemnly to
attention.

He was flanked by Macedonia's Foreign Minister, Dr Blagoj Hangiski, and
Britain's Ambassador Mr Mark Dickinson, who also laid wreaths.

Altogether, 124 British had been laid to rest in the Skopje cemetery. The 123
servicemen and one Scottish nurse had died, most in 1919, after the Bulgarian
Armistice at the end of the First World War.

Many died during an outbreak of influenza, some died from wounds and others as
prisoners of war.

The Prince had just arrived in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia by
private jet, from Bulgaria, on the final leg of his eight-day Balkans tour.

In Northern Ireland, the victims of the Omagh bombing were remembered yesterday.
The names of the 29 people killed by the Real IRA bomb in August, together with
those of two unborn children, were read out by the President of the Omagh branch
of the Royal British Legion, Mr Roy Maguire, during a ceremony at the town's
college of further education.

Later, relatives of some of the victims were among spectators who gathered to
watch wreaths being laid at the town's Cenotaph.

In Enniskillen, the 11 victims of the 1987 Poppy Day bombing were also
remembered.

In towns and villages, thousands gathered to lay wreaths for victims of the two
world wars and those who have died in Northern Ireland violence.

The Duchess of Kent led the main remembrance service at the Cenotaph outside
Belfast City Hall, accompanied by Northern Ireland Minister Mr Adam Ingram.
Later she attended a reception in City Hall for hundreds of ex-servicemen.

In Portadown, two Chelsea Pensioners took part in a parade to the war memorial
during a four-day visit to Northern Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Keeping with tradition: The Queen, watched by Mr Tony Blair, leader of
the Opposition Mr William Hague and leader of the Liberal Democrats Mr Paddy
Ashdown, prepares to lay a wreath at the Remembrance Service at the Cenotaph in
London. Right: The Queen M other watches the service, with Cmdr Tim Lawrence,
from a balcony in the Foreign Office.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              37 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 11, 1998, Wednesday

WE STILL REMEMBER THEM;
 TAKE A LOOK AROUND AT WHO IS PROUDLY WEARING POPPIES THESE DAYS, ADVISES DENNIS
ELLAM. YOU MAY BE IN FOR A SURPRISE.

BYLINE: Dennis Ellam

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1051 words


There is a reassuring sight, this Armistice Day for anyone who might have begun
to doubt whether the British still know the meaning of duty and responsibility.

Look around at the numbers wearing their red poppies, and note especially their
age range; and when 11 o'clock strikes watch how many, young and old alike,
respectfully observe the two-minute silence.

It has been a remarkable fact, that in an age of apparent selfishness, the
country has become increasingly concerned that it should not forget those acts
of selfless sacrifice that marked the two great conflicts of this century.

The change in public attitudes, especially among the young, has been profound.

Indeed, if we ask again that familiar question - would the modern British be
prepared to risk their lives for their country? - the answer today must be that
they would.

Only a few years ago, such a proposition would have seemed quite outrageous. We
had re-educated ourselves to believe in the paramount importance of the
individual, and to argue that no national interest or sovereign rights were
actually worth fighting fo r.

The wars seemed to events consigned to history, and with them that quality we
had come to know as the "wartime spirit".

As a teenager growing up in the Sixties, I would no more have worn a poppy than
I would have donned my grandfather's overcoat.

The young actually preferred to forget. Remembrance was for the old who, once a
year, were allowed to join in an outburst of nostalgia for their own past.

Today it has become very different. The poppy is worn with pride, by students
and club-goers, by soccer stars and pop idols, by raucous TV presenters and
sashaying celebrities.

My own 16-year-old daughter, who is at an age when my generation would have
dismissed war as the folly of a less sophisticated time whose people blindly
followed orders rather than their consciences, has been engrossed in the
coverage of the 80th anniver sary of the Armistice.

Incredibly old men have set out before the public, probably for the last time in
person, memories that themselves beggar belief.

I have long since grown to regret my own youthful indifference to their
astonishing experiences. How heartening it is, then, to see that a newer
generation is emerging, even though it is still further removed from the events
of history, with a far better understanding of the deeds that were done, and the
implications for all of us who came after.

Today's young people, I am sure, look upon the enormous toll of life taken by
the First and Second World Wars as a disastrous waste, and yet at the same time
appreciate why the conflicts were confronted and fought.

Would they go to war today, on their country's behalf? I am convinced that they
would, with the solidarity and determination that their grandfathers and
great-grandfathers shared before them.

It has become the accepted perception, of course, that Britain is now a country
that is rapidly losing, if it has not already lost, its sense of community.

The neighbourhoods that sent their sons to the front in 1914, and to wider
battlefields still in 1939, have largely been changed beyond recognition, or
disappeared altogether.

That much is true enough. In addition, we see the dismantling of community on a
national scale as well.

The effect of cutting Wales and Scotland loose to form their own administrations
is to weaken the essential bonds of the United Kingdom, the greatest British
community of all.

Can there ever again be a common enemy, it might well be asked, who could bring
the kingdom back into unity to counter its threat? If we are all to go our own
way then surely it might transpire that the foe of the English might well be a
friend to the We lsh or the Scots?

In the long term, who can say, this might be the eventual, damaging consequence
of devolution, and the tampering with our ancient ties.

And yet for the time being, there is the more comfortable indication that a
semblance of British nationhood might survive even these experiments in
government.

Perhaps, after all, there will prove to be more that unites us than keeps us
apart, a spiritual regard for our country, whichever part of it we inhabit,
which a threat from the outside will reawaken once again. It might be said that
when the First World War called its menfolk to arms, the country's mood was not
prepared for conflict.

There was an air of slothful contentment, which might roughly have equated to
those insolently careless times in the Sixties.

Industry was prosperous, many of the social ills and inequalities had been
addressed and corrected by the Victorian and Edwardian reformers, and Britain
commanded its Empire, ruling the waves around the globe to maintain its
superiority.

No matter. When it was made clear that they were needed by their country, the
menfolk went off to their war and families at home endured their sacrifices.

Come 1939, a different mood prevailed. Class divisions were rife, and the lowest
of those classes were being made to suffer much economic hardship.

However, the same sense of unity and purpose was inspired yet again, in the face
of the common threat, now further enhanced by stalwart courage on the home
front, where ordinary civilians were forced to endure the terrors of airborne
attack.

Perhaps it was with a sense of relief that we preferred to forget such times,
and to tell ourselves that we would not permit them to return.

It seems that we have begun to know better, and to appreciate that evil events
beyond our control might lead us into responses we would have never
contemplated.

The turning point in the national conscience, I think, came in 1994, with the
50th anniversary of the D-Day landings and the commemoration of the peace.

Graphically, in the most painstaking detail, in the words of the veterans
themselves, the reasons why peace had to be hard-fought were carefully
explained.

The years have slipped away, and curiously we are better versed than ever in the
lessons of our own history.

We have learned to appreciate what has been bestowed to us, by the sacrifices of
others. The greatest lesson, surely, is that it can never be taken for granted,
that such sacrifices will never have to be made again.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: History lesson: Above, a scene from the First World War trenches - but
despite the all too often witnessed image of today's youth, they would still
sign up to fight for Queen and country.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              38 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 12, 1998

'New evidence' for IRA bomb appeal;
Rory Carroll on campaigners' claims of a miscarriage of justice over the 1982
Hyde Park bombing

BYLINE: Rory Carroll

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 542 words


Supporters claim vital trial evidence was illegally withheld from the defence

Danny McNamee (left), released last week from a 25-year sentence over the 1982
Hyde Park car bombing which killed four soldiers and seven horsesMAIN
PHOTOGRAPH: MARTIN ARGLES

AMAN jailed for the IRA's 1982 Hyde Park bombing launches an appeal next week
which campaigners predict will reveal dramatic new evidence to quash his
conviction - making it one of the final miscarriages of justice from the Irish
troubles.

Danny McNamee, aged 38, served 12 years of a 25-year sentence for conspiracy to
cause explosions, including the car bomb which killed four soldiers and badly
injured 17 civilians. Seven horses were also killed.

Campaigners yesterday said they had uncovered evidence that the prosecution at
the 1987 trial illegally withheld vital information from the defence about 25
fingerprints on an arms cache.

The jury was told the prints were unidentified, but they belonged to Dessie
Ellis, a then jailed IRA bomb-maker. The IRA issued a statement denying McNamee
was a member.

The two-week appeal, which starts in London on Monday, will also hear experts
claiming that a partial thumbprint found on a battery in an unexploded IRA bomb
cannot be identified as belonging to McNamee or anyone else.

The defence will argue that McNamee's job as an electronics engineer who
repaired thousands of CB radios and televisions, offered an innocent explanation
of how his prints came to be found on two strips of adhesive tape.

A third strand of the appeal will challenge the prosecution's claim that
McNamee, a physics graduate from Crossmaglen, South Armagh, designed the circuit
board used in the Hyde Park bombing.

His solicitor, Gareth Peirce, said she had new material suggesting that evidence
that Ellis possessed and admitted making identical devices in 1981 had been
suppressed.

At press conferences yesterday in London and Dublin, supporters - including
Labour MPs Kevin McNamara and Jeremy Corbyn - said they hoped McNamee would soon
be recognised as a miscarriage of justice victim along with the Guildford Four
and Birmingham Six.

He was released from the Maze prison last week, and became the first person
convicted of a terrorist offence in Britain to be freed early under the Good
Friday Agreement.

He was proceeding with the appeal to clear his name and allow him to practise
law, which he studied in prison, gaining a second class degree from London
university.

Adapting to freedom was a slow process, said his brother Francis. "He's just
getting used to the idea that he doesn't have doors locked behind him. Prison
conditions were very horrific for the last three years in England . . . but he's
getting healthier, putting on weight."

McNamee was one of six inmates who escaped from the top security Whitemoor jail
at Cambridgeshire in 1994. He was soon recaptured but the subsequent trial
collapsed because of prejudicial coverage.

Supporters believe the media helped foster an atmosphere of hysteria during the
1987 trial by branding McNamee an evil IRA master-bomber. They said the judge,
Mr Justice Cowan, never explicitly warned the jury to ignore media reports
blaming him for up to 97 deaths.


LOAD-DATE: November 12, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              39 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 12, 1998

'New evidence' for IRA bomb appeal;
Rory Carroll on campaigners' claims of a miscarriage of justice over the 1982
Hyde Park bombing

BYLINE: RORY CARROLL

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 499 words


A MAN jailed for the IRA's 1982 Hyde Park bombing launches an appeal next week
which campaigners predict will reveal dramatic new evidence to quash his
conviction - making it one of the final miscarriages of justice from the Irish
troubles.

Danny McNamee, aged 38, served 12 years of a 25-year sentence for conspiracy to
cause explosions, including the car bomb which killed four soldiers and badly
injured 17 civilians. Seven horses were also killed.

Campaigners yesterday said they had uncovered evidence that the prosecution at
the 1987 trial illegally withheld vital information from the defence about 25
fingerprints on an arms cache.

The jury was told the prints were unidentified, but they belonged to Dessie
Ellis, a then jailed IRA bomb-maker. The IRA issued a statement denying McNamee
was a member.

The two-week appeal, which starts in London on Monday, will also hear experts
claiming that a partial thumbprint found on a battery in an unexploded IRA bomb
cannot be identified as belonging to McNamee or anyone else.

The defence will argue that McNamee's job as an electronics engineer who
repaired thousands of CB radios and televisions, offered an innocent explanation
of how his prints came to be found on two strips of adhesive tape.

A third strand of the appeal will challenge the prosecution's claim that
McNamee, a physics graduate from Crossmaglen, South Armagh, designed the circuit
board used in the Hyde Park bombing.

His solicitor, Gareth Peirce, said she had new material suggesting that evidence
that Ellis possessed and admitted making identical devices in 1981 had been
suppressed.

At press conferences yesterday in London and Dublin, supporters - including
Labour MPs Kevin McNamara and Jeremy Corbyn - said they hoped McNamee would soon
be recognised as a miscarriage of justice victim along with the Guildford Four
and Birmingham Six.

He was released from the Maze prison last week, and became the first person
convicted of a terrorist offence in Britain to be freed early under the Good
Friday Agreement.

He was proceeding with the appeal to clear his name and allow him to practise
law, which he studied in prison, gaining a second class degree from London
university.

Adapting to freedom was a slow process, said his brother Francis. "He's just
getting used to the idea that he doesn't have doors locked behind him. Prison
conditions were very horrific for the last three years in England . . . but he's
getting healthier, putting on weight."

McNamee was one of six inmates who escaped from the top security Whitemoor jail
at Cambridgeshire in 1994. He was soon recaptured but the subsequent trial
collapsed because of prejudicial coverage.

Supporters believe the media helped foster an atmosphere of hysteria during the
1987 trial by branding McNamee an evil IRA master-bomber. They said the judge,
Mr Justice Cowan, never explicitly warned the jury to ignore media reports
blaming him for up to 97 deaths.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 14, 1998

Ulster troop numbers cut to 1970 level

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 374 words


THE number of troops in Northern Ireland is being cut to its lowest level since
1970.

Next week, 400 soldiers are to be withdrawn from the province, reducing military
levels to just over 15,000 - some 2000 less than were on the streets during the
summer.

RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan announced the reductions as part of a
continuing review in response to the improvement in the security situation.

But the soldiers, together with those withdrawn in recent months, will remain
under the command of the Army's general officer commanding in Northern Ireland,
on standby to return should the security situation change.

At the same time as the withdrawal to mainland Britain of 16 Regiment Royal
Artillery, the chief constable announced the three vehicle checkpoints around
the South Armagh village of Bessbrook, the base of the main military heliport in
the province, were to be closed and demolished.

Mr Flanagan said: "The security situation continues to be kept under close
scrutiny and further progress will depend on the operational assessment of the
terrorist threat."

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam said it was "very encouraging that the
general situation was such that the security forces feel able to make these
changes".

q Another IRA prisoner was last night released early from jail in the Irish
Republic under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement. Peter Sherry, 43, was
jailed for life for explosive offences in England along with Martina Anderson
and Ella O'Dwyer, who were freed from Maghaberry jail in Northern Ireland
earlier this week.

q A go-between for the Loyalist Volunteer Force held talks with the Northern
Ireland decommissioning body to discuss the terror group's intention to start
giving up its weapons.

Pastor Kenny McClinton, who mediates on behalf of the LVF, will brief the body
on the terrorists' plans to give up a "small but very real" amount of weapons
within weeks.

q Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam's efforts to bring peace and
reconciliation to the province were yesterday recognised with an honorary
university degree.

The honour was bestowed upon the Minister by the University of Coventry during
an hour-long ceremony at the city's cathedral.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 17, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Miia and the power of love -;
Finnish student Miia Pusa had only been courting Andrew Dean for one month when
he collapsed and nearly died. She tells Philippa Jones why she gave up her
education and family to nurse her boyfriend back to health and happiness in
Newcastle.

SECTION: LIFE, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 975 words


   MIIA Pusa puts an arm round stroke-victim Andrew Dean on the sofa and says
just one word - "love". Andrew, 27, of Two Ball Lonnen, Newcastle, collapsed in
a German cinema six months ago with a massive heart attack and stroke.

After three weeks in a German hospital - where he was dubbed "The English
Patient" - the church youth worker was flown home in an air ambulance for
specialist treatment.

And Miia, 20, who had been his girlfriend for just one month, left her native
Finland for the North-East to nurse him back to health.

When asked what has kept her going, her answer is simple.

"Love," she says, and smiles bashfully.

Andrew's mother, Marie, cannot sing her praises highly enough. "If I'd put my
order in for a daughter-in-law I couldn't have had a better one," says Mrs Dean,
54, a health authority secretary, of Ovington Grove, Fenham, Newcastle. "We
couldn't have managed without her."

But Miia of Lahti, in the south of Finland, is embarrassed by the praise. "I
just believe this was the thing I was meant to do," she says. "Not to go to
university in Finland but to come here."

She remembers the terror she felt when the attack hit Andrew, a youth worker
with Holy Cross Church, Fenham, during a long weekend in Newcastle's twin town
of Gelsen-kirchen.

He had come out to see her, and other friends he'd met on church exchanges,
while she was working as an au pair there, and a group of them were queueing at
the cinema.

Miia says: "I asked him questions like 'do you have enough money to pay for the
tickets?' and he didn't say anything.

"He just didn't answer. And then he went purple. I tried to lift his right arm
and it just dropped. He couldn't move and then he fell.

"I tried to catch him. I thought, Oh my God! I didn't know what was happening.
We thought maybe he had fainted. I tried to lift up his leg but then his friend
came running and said no no, don't do that, because he knew Andy had a heart
problem."

Andrew was whisked off to hospital, and Miia went into shock.

"I was terrified, shaking. I couldn't eat, couldn't sleep, or drink anything for
four or five days," she says.

Then he fell into a coma and the hospital phoned his parents telling them to
come out immediately because he wasn't going to make it.

Civil servant Peter Dean, 51, says: "We couldn't really take it in. A German
doctor phoned and told us to go because it was really, really critical.

"If there had been a second attack that would have been fatal. We threw a few
clothes into a case and went.

"Once we got through the first week things started to pick up. But things were
desperately black. His heart was going from 236 beats a minute down to 90. We
just prayed and hung on and knew that everyone was praying too."

Mrs Dean, a practising Catholic with her husband, knows those prayers played an
important part. "I've always had a strong faith in the power of prayer, and that
was what got him through that day," she says.

But that wasn't the first time his worried parents had prayed for their son's
health. Andrew was born with a congenital heart defect and had open-heart
surgery when he was just 20 months at the Freeman Hospital.

Four years ago, doctors discovered he had a hole in the heart.

After the attack, doctors at the Freeman were on a hotline to their colleagues
in Gelsenkirchen but when it became clear he was out of danger, Andrew - still
paralysed down his right side and with impaired speech - was flown home to
Newcastle for treatment.

And Mrs Dean saw his first smile when he heard the voice of a Geordie ambulance
driver who picked him up at the airport to drive him to the Freeman Hospital.

Andrew didn't have travel insurance so friends and family, as well as churches
and city councils in Britain and Germany, chipped in to help out with the air
ambulance.

Their generosity has meant a lot to his parents. Mrs Dean says: "I'd never want
anything like that to happen again - but the friends we made and the way
everyone responded to take the financial burden off our shoulders was
tremendous."

Leaving Miia in Gelsenkirchen, however was difficult - both for Andrew and his
mother.

Mrs Dean breaks down in tears when she remembers. "I really felt for Miia. At
least I was with Andrew. But she was left behind."

Although Andrew and Miia had only been together a short time, they first met met
on an international church Easter camp more than three years ago.

Miia says: "At first we didn't even talk to each other. He was from England, I
was from Finland. It was a new thing for both of us. So we just laughed at each
others' jokes."

Their second meeting was at an Easter camp held in Newcastle the following year.
"Nothing happened that time, either," she says. "But he was absolutely hilarious
- joking all the time."

In February last year Andrew went out to Gelsenkirchen for a youth leaders'
training week. And finally, at the Easter camp in Finland, it happened. "He
kissed me for the first time," she says.

Andrew's collapse happened only a month later but Miia knew what she wanted to
do. She planned to come out for the summer anyway, before starting university in
Finland but when her place was rejected, she came here and ignored her return
ticket. "I couldn't even imagine doing anything else," she says.

She lives with Andrew in his flat - putting his parents' minds about his safety
at rest - and although his recovery is not yet total, it has been rapid. Doctors
said he has done in three months what they thought would take two years, and Mrs
Dean says the expertise and concern of everyone at Ward 13 at the Freeman - as
well as Miia - is to thank for it.

Andrew's ambitions are to drive his car, go to this year's Easter camp in
Germany, and visit those in the hospital and church at Gelsen-kirchen who helped
him so much.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ties of love: Andrew Dean with his girlfriend Miia Pusa. Miia turned
her back on a university career to nurse Andrew back to health.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              42 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 1998

The MI6 plot to kill Gadafy and other allegations;
The David Shayler website . . . the security services can do little to prevent
it publishing more revelations about them

BYLINE: David Shayler

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 239 words


Gadafy plot

Britain's foreign intelligence agency, MI6, helped finance a February 1996
attempt by Islamic extremists to kill the Libyan leader with a car bomb. The
plot went wrong and led to the deaths of several bystanders. An MI6 officer
handed over pounds 100,000 to an Arab agent who masterminded the apparently
unauthorised plan. Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, after talks with MI6, said
this claim was "pure fantasy".

Israeli embassy bombing

MI5 was warned about the 1994 bomb outside the London embassy which injured 13
people, but failed to act. Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, said later he
understood why Mr Shayler made the claim but added that MI5 could not have
prevented the outrage.

IRA bombings

Information about an IRA bomber was not passed on to the relevant agency. The
1993 Bishopsgate blast in the City which killed three people and caused pounds 1
billion in damage "shouldn't have happened".

Personal files

MI5 holds files on tens of thousands of individuals it once considered
potentially subversive, including Peter Mandelson, Jack Straw, Arthur Scargill,
John Lennon, jazzman Ronnie Scott, and UB40's Ali Campbell.

"Red tape"

Over-strict warrant procedures are preventing efficient monitoring of suspect
Libyan intelligence officers in London. Too many money-wasting investigations
into "reds under the bed". "Excessive drinking culture."

Richard Norton-Taylor


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 19, 1998

The MI6 plot to kill Gadafy - and other allegations

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 239 words


GADAFY PLOT

Britain's foreign intelligence agency, MI6, helped finance a February 1996
attempt by Islamic extremists to kill the Libyan leader with a car bomb. The
plot went wrong and led to the deaths of several bystanders. An MI6 officer
handed over pounds 100,000 to an Arab agent who masterminded the apparently
unauthorised plan. Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, after talks with MI6, said
this claim was "pure fantasy".

ISRAELI EMBASSY BOMBING

MI5 was warned about the 1994 bomb outside the London embassy which injured 13
people, but failed to act. Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, said later he
understood why Mr Shayler made the claim but added that MI5 could not have
prevented the outrage.

IRA BOMBINGS

Information about an IRA bomber was not passed on to the relevant agency. The
1993 Bishopsgate blast in the City which killed three people and caused pounds 1
billion in damage "shouldn't have happened".

PERSONAL FILES

MI5 holds files on tens of thousands of individuals it once considered
potentially subversive, including Peter Mandelson, Jack Straw, Arthur Scargill,
John Lennon, jazzman Ronnie Scott, and UB40's Ali Campbell.

"RED TAPE"

Over-strict warrant procedures are preventing efficient monitoring of suspect
Libyan intelligence officers in London. Too many money-wasting investigations
into "reds under the bed". "Excessive drinking culture."

Richard Norton-Taylor


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               November 27, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1123 words


Insurance cash for NHS?

A new Bill which could raise GBP 100 million a year for the NHS by reclaiming
the costs of treating road accident victims from insurance companies was being
published by the Government today.

Under the Road Traffic Act (NHS Charges) Bill, the Government would set up a
special unit to claim compensation from insurance companies for treating road
crash victims on the NHS.

Insurers could be charged a flat rate of up to GBP 295 for out -patient
treatment and GBP 2,949 for in-patient treatment where drivers they cover are
responsible for a personal injury accident.

Ministers believe it would provide a vital source of new funds for the NHS but
it could add around GBP 10 to the average motor insurance premium.

Israeli PM flies home

Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu cut short a trip to Europe and was
flying home from London today after two more Israeli soldiers were killed in
Lebanon.

The two soldiers, on patrol in South Lebanon, died yesterday when two bombs went
off under their armoured vehicles, according to an Israeli army spokesman. Two
other soldiers were killed in a Lebanon bomb blast on Wednesday. Since the
beginning of the year, 23 Israelis have been killed in Lebanon.

The Iran -backed Hezbollah guerrillas took responsibility for the attacks,
according to radio reports.

An Israeli cabinet minister and the chairman of the powerful parliamentary
security committee called on Israel to attack Beirut and destroy infrastructure
there in response to the attacks.

Netanyahu planned to visit Spain after winding up talks in London, but sent a
message of regret to his Spanish counterpart, cancelling his trip to Madrid.

Netanyahu is to convene high-level consultations about Israel's options in
Lebanon, as the debate over whether Israel's army should be there at all
escalates.

The Israeli army patrols a self-proclaimed "security zone" six to nine miles
wide.

Rapist hunted

Detectives from three police forces have joined together to catch a serial
rapist who is believed to have committed at least five sexual assaults this
year, police said today. A joint inquiry team consisting of officers from the
Metropolitan Police Service, Essex Police and Sussex Police has been set up to
investigate five linked assaults on two teenage girls and three women between
August and September in Brighton, Southend and London.

Father charged

The father of an eight-year-old girl found strangled in the loft of a house will
appear in court today charged with her murder. Lisa Tsang's body was found by
police at the family home in Jocelyn Street, Peckham, in south-east London, on
Tuesday morning. San Sing Tsang, 34, will appear before Camberwell Green
Magistrates, a Scotland Yard spokesman said.

'Save duty free'

Two in three Britons want the Prime Minister to intervene personally to save
duty-free in Europe, according to a new survey. The national poll of 1,000
adults, conducted by Gallup for the Duty-Free Confederation, found support for
retaining tax-free shopping for travellers is strong. Duty-free is due to be
abolished within the European Union on June 30, 1999.

GBP 10,000 reward

A GBP 10,000 reward has been offered for information leading to the arrest and
conviction of the murderer of Cornish housewife Linda Bryant, 41, who was
stabbed to death while walking the family's dog on a country road near her home
at Ruan High Lanes, near Truro, on October 20. The reward has been put up by a
local resident, Devon and Cornwall police said.

Cut ordered

Britain's first jail for children has been told to reduce the number of young
offenders held there until urgent refurbishment is carried out. At the moment 36
youngsters aged 12 to 14 are in Medway Secure Training Centre, Kent, which has
room for up to 40 "trainees". On Home Office orders that number is to be cut to
25 while building and refurbishment work is undertaken at the newly-built
centre, which opened in April.

TV 'meters'

Revolutionary television and radio audience meters are being tested by 50
Manchester viewers in a world first. American company Arbitron's pager-sized
tracking device picks up inaudible cues encoded in signals by broadcasters and
automatically records what people are hearing or watching. The meter could
revolutionise ratings research, which is being made more complex by the
explosion in digital channels and different viewing habits.

President Hulk?

WRESTLING legend "Hollywood" Hulk Hogan has announced his retirement so he can
run for president in 2000. Hogan, 45, said that former pro wrestler Jesse "The
Body" Ventura's election as Minnesota governor inspired his presidential bid.
"We need an honest American to take over and make all the decisions that come
across the desk and think of America first," said Hogan.

Plane scare

A Swissair MD-11 en route to Zurich returned to Singapore after a strong smell
was detected in the jetliner's cockpit, a spokeswoman for the airline said
today. Flight SR189 landed safely, having turned back 41 minutes after takeoff
with an electrical problem.

Morgue woes

Two-thirds of the refrigeration units at the only Jakarta morgue that conducts
autopsies have broken down. And the cash-strapped government has no money to
replace them. Only ten of 28 units used to preserve corpses before post-mortem
examinations are working, said the Jakarta Post.

Killer blaze

A fire swept through a department store amusement arcade in central China's
Hubei province, killing nine people and injuring five, the official newspaper
Workers Daily reported today. It took firefighters two hours to extinguish the
blaze, which broke out on the fourth floor of a six floor building in Jingshan
county, Hubei.

Oil price review

Opec has failed to reach even a basic agreement to extend oil production cuts or
halt a slide in world oil prices, saying at the close of a testy year-end
meeting in Vienna that it would review the situation again in March.

Ikea stampede

Hundreds of Norwegians shed their usual placidity and rushed a new Ikea
furniture store that was offering GBP 95 gift certificates to the first 100
customers. Dozens of people had camped out overnight at the Oslo store and
hundreds more showed up in the morning for the special offer.

Tomba for trial

Alberto Tomba and his father have been indicted in Bologna on charges of tax
fraud and scheduled for trial in March 2000. The Italian three -times Olympic
ski champion, who retired last month, is accused of failing to pay taxes on GBP
10m in income from 1990-96.

Maradona rage

Soccer legend Diego Maradona kicked and punched journalists who were trying to
interview him at Buenos Aries airport as he was leaving for Italy with

his wife Claudia Villafane.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              45 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 1, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Lockerbie hit by gas blast

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words


   One man was hurt and 30 people evacuated from their homes when an explosion
rocked a house in an area of Lockerbie hit by the 1988 air disaster which
claimed 270 lives.

Experts were today investigating the cause of the blast in Park Place, where a
possible build-up of gas in a house was suspected.

The blast badly damaged the house, where neighbours found one man suffering from
severe burns. He was taken to Dumfries and Galloway Royal Infirmary.

The area was classed as one of the Lockerbie disaster zones after the crash in
which a terrorist bomb brought down a Pan Am jumbo jet, killing all 259 on board
and 11 residents of the town.

Park Place is close to Rosebank, where part of the fuselage came down.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              46 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 3, 1998, Thursday

HOW I BREACHED SECURITY ON THE DOOM WATCH LINE THE IRA ONCE BOOBY- TRAPPED;
 EXCLUSIVE: MIRROR REPORTER BOARDS NUCLEAR WASTE TRAIN UNCHALLENGED

BYLINE: By Jeremy Armstrong

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1226 words


THIS is the moment I lifted the lid on a security scandal on Britain's nuclear
trains.

I boarded a locomotive unchallenged as it was about to be loaded with
radioactive waste.

My photographer and I calmly walked into a compound, protected by a 10ft high
barbed wire fence, as a British Nuclear Fuels worker, sitting in a van nearby,
looked on.

We got on to the train and stood for several minutes making notes and taking
photographs.

Vehicles arrived and left the compound at Dungeness Magnox power station in Kent
but no one approached us.

Minutes later a lorryload of nuclear waste arrived to be loaded on to the train.

The 8ft high, 50 tonne flask then began its journey north for reprocessing at
the Sellafield plant in Cumbria. This line passes through busy towns and was
booby trapped by the IRA four years ago. The device lay undetected for three
months.

The train passed through Ashford International terminal in Kent. Moments later a
Eurostar service pulled in and followed it up the line through Tonbridge,
Sevenoaks and Orpington.

The Mirror's team caught up with the train as it sat, waiting for the end of the
rush hour, outside a busy commuter station at Hither Green in south east London.

It then passed through densely populated areas in south and west London
including Lewisham, over Brixton High Street, alongside Battersea Power Station,
over Chelsea Bridge and through Kensington to Willesden, where it was joined by
nuclear trains from Bradwell power station in Essex.

One driver with 15 years experience on nuclear trains told me: "The public
probably take for granted that these things are safe. But the security on board
is absolutely zero.

"They sit in the sidings, sometimes for hours on end, and anyone could gain
access to them. They run at the same times, week in week out."

The driver, who would not be named fearing he might lose his job, claimed staff
were issued with mini Geiger counters for monitoring radiation.  They were
allegedly withdrawn after they constantly turned red.

The special service is currently run from Dungeness by English, Welsh and
Scottish Railways (EWS). But it will shortly be taken over by Direct Rail
Services, a subsidiary of British Nuclear Fuels Limited.

It has conducted trials to use the same trains for carrying milk, despite fears
of contamination.

Security was overhauled when a train broke down on the way to Sellafield. Left
over the weekend, it was covered in graffiti when the crew returned.

But a BNFL spokesman said the trains had been running safely for 35 years.

He added: "These flasks weigh between 50 to 100 tonnes -- they are not something
you are going to be able to hijack.

"The best mode of transport is the rail system. The security arrangements are in
line with all the security regulations."

EWS Railways promised to review its security arrange- ments following The
Mirror's investigation.

A spokeswoman said: "Safety is of paramount importance to us."

But Greenpeace campaigner Dr Helen Wallace said: "We followed a truck carrying
waste three years ago and the driver parked it up while he went for a cup of
tea.

"It is our view that it should not be transported at all but stored at power
stations."

Nuclear expert John Large, who has given evidence to a Commons safety committee,
said: "The philosophy seems to be that because the casks conform to the
International Atomic Energy safety rules a terrorist would be out of his mind to
attack them.

"But terrorists are out of their minds, aren't they? The fact is there is no
security."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCANDAL: The Mirror's Jeremy Armstrong on board a freight train used to
transport deadly radioactive waste

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              47 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1998

Hopes grow for Lockerbie handover

BYLINE: Ian Black in London and Nicholas Pelham in Tunis

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 681 words


KOFI ANNAN, the United Nations secretary general, is poised to fly to Libya to
urge Colonel Muammar Gadafy to surrender the two men accused of the Lockerbie
bombing, 10 years after the worst terrorist incident in British history.

With hopes for a successful outcome mounting in advance of tomorrow's make-or
-break talks, and technical preparations for a handover completed, the suspects
could be in Scottish custody in Holland within days.

"Yes, I will go to Libya on Saturday," Mr Annan confirmed yesterday after
meeting the Tunisian foreign minister, Said Ben Mustapha. "We are going to look
at solutions to the problem."

Mr Annan, who has twice averted American-led air strikes against Iraq this year,
flies to the eastern Libyan town of Sirte to meet Colonel Gadafy after a UN
envoy sent ahead to Tripoli reported back last night that a deal could be within
reach.

But diplomats warned that Libya still objects to the non-negotiable British
-American demand that if convicted, the two must serve their sentences in
Scotland.

There were also warnings that the Libyan leader's unpredictability means nothing
can be certain until the suspects have been handed over.

UN sources said Mr Annan understood that there could be no negotiation over the
imprisonment question - after unequivocal reminders from Madeleine Albright, the
US secretary of state, and Britain's Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook.

But he will be able to reassure Colonel Gadafy that UN sanctions will be
suspended - and in effect lifted - once the men are in custody.

Last summer, London and Washington executed a sharp U-turn and offered to hold a
unique trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands.

In Holland, the Dutch foreign ministry confirmed last night that the facility
for the trial, at the Camp Zeist air base near Utrecht, was ready to receive the
Libyans and the massive security operation and media circus that will follow
them.

Hans Corell, the UN's chief legal adviser, has been in close contact with the
Dutch authorities to make final preparations for a handover. Dutch officials
said the men could be in Scottish custody 48 hours after landing in the
Netherlands. Technical arrangements are understood to have been completed.

Mr Correll is due in The Hague this weekend.

Britain, reluctantly backed by the US, has gone to extraordinary lengths to coax
Col Gadafy into compliance, sending the clearest possible signal that a trial
would be the end of the story and the beginning of international rehabilitation
for one of the world's "pariah" regimes.

In the latest move, the Foreign Office has said that a Libyan consulate could
open in Scotland to facilitate visits to Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen
Khalifa Fhimah in Barlinnie prison.

The two were charged in 1991 in the US and Britain for planting a bomb aboard a
Pan American airliner on December 21, 1988. A total of 270 people, most of them
Americans, were killed.

Mr Cook has said he is impressed by the seriousness with which the Libyans seem
to be taking the mounting pressure for a handover, and was said to be following
developments closely.

"Kofi Annan fully recognises that the US-British plan is non-negotiable,' an FO
official said.

"We are hopeful but it isvery hard to read Libyan intentions," said a US
official. "They will either go for it or they won't. But the Annan visit could
be a way of easing Gadafy into a place he wishes to be in anyway. If he wants
sanctions lifted this is the way to do it."

The UN Security Council, which imposed sanctions on Libya in 1992, has said they
would be suspended once the suspects are in the Netherlands.

These include a ban on air travel, an arms embargo, a freeze on some Libyan
assets abroad and a ban on certain types of equipment used in oil terminals and
refineries. But there is no embargo on oil exports, Libya's lifeline.

But in practice, once the sanctions are suspended it would be nearly impossible
to reapply them because that would require another Security Council vote, which
would probably fail.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 5, 1998

Annan in Lockerbie trial bid

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 95 words



KOFI Annan, the United Nations Secretary-General, was flying to Libya today amid
high hopes in Britain of a deal to end to the deadlock over the Lockerbie
bombing trial.

He will meet Colonel Muammar Gaddafi in a bid to resolve Libyan objections to
handing over the two men accused of carrying out Britain's worst terrorist
atrocity.

With the tenth anniversary looming of the attack which claimed 270 lives after a
Pan Am jet was blown out of the sky over the Scottish town, relatives of British
victims said they were hopeful of "significant progress".


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              49 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                December 5, 1998

UN chief in Libya for Lockerbie deal

BYLINE: By Cahal Milmo And Paul Peachey

SECTION: Pg.7

LENGTH: 304 words


UNITED Nations chief Kofi Annan flew to Libya today on a high stakes mission to
try to break the deadlock over the Lockerbie bombing trial.

Amid mounting hopes of a possible breakthrough, Mr Annan was meeting Colonel
Muammar Gaddafi at a coastal hideaway in an attempt to resolve Libyan objections
to handing over two men accused of involvement in the atrocity.

British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook held a 15-minute conversation with the UN
Secretary General in which Mr Cook stressed his determination to see the
suspects serve their sentences in a Scottish prison if they are convicted of
Britain's worst terrorist attack.

With the tenth anniversary looming of the attack, which claimed 270 lives after
a Pan Am jet was blown out of the sky over the Scottish town, relatives of
British victims said they were hopeful of "significant progress".

Access

During his telephone conversation, Mr Cook thanked Mr Annan for his efforts and
wished him good luck, the Foreign Office said.

Mr Cook also reiterated that Britain had offered the Libyans the opportunity to
station diplomats in Scotland with unrestricted access to the prisoners if they
were found guilty.

Mr Annan, who has been credited with twice averting allied air strikes against
Iraq this year, has promised to keep in touch with Mr Cook over the weekend.

He will try to complete an Anglo-American deal offered this summer of a trial in
the Netherlands under Scottish law.

Libya has agreed in principle, but has consistently dragged its feet with
demands over access to the two men, Abdel Basset Ali Mohammed al-Megrahi and
Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, and where they would be imprisoned if convicted.

Mr Annan's spokesman today said the Secretary General feels "maybe he can break
the ice" with Colonel Gaddafi over the surrender of the two suspects.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1998 Leicester Mercury

                              50 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                December 5, 1998

UN chief Annan in Libya bid for Lockerbie trial breakthrough

SECTION: Politics: International, Pg.4

LENGTH: 155 words


Kofi Annan, the UN Secretary-General, flew to Libya today amid high hopes in
Britain of a deal to end to the deadlock over the Lockerbie bombing trial.

The United Nations chief will meet with Colonel Muammar Gaddafi in an attempt to
resolve Libyan objections to handing over the two men accused of carrying out
Britain's worst terrorist atrocity.

With the tenth anniversary looming of the attack which claimed 270 lives after a
Pan Am jet was blown out of the sky over the Scottish town, relatives of British
victims said they were hopeful of "significant progress".

Mr Annan will try to complete an Anglo -American deal offered this summer of a
trial in the Netherlands under Scottish law.

Libya has agreed in principle but has consistently dragged its heals with
demands over access to the two men, Abdel Basset Ali Mohammed al-Megrahi and
Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, and where they would be imprisoned if convicted.


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              51 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            December 6, 1998, Sunday

Cloak and dagger

BYLINE: John Dugdale

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 977 words


JOHN DUGDALE negotiates his way around spies and sleuths.

At the start of the decade, the international thriller was confidently assumed
to be facing extinction, cruelly deprived of its raison d'etre by the end of the
cold war. But rumours of the genre's imminent demise were greatly exaggerated:
this year's examples show it finding new uses for spooks and special forces,
adroitly reinvent-ing itself for a world in which the sole remaining superpower
polices threats to the Pax Americana. Tom Clancy's enormous Rainbow Six (M
Joseph Pounds 16.99) envisages an elite multinational counter-terrorist unit
with a global remit. The spy hero of Geoffrey Archer's Fire Hawk (Century Pounds
15.99) attempts to foil a planned Iraqi terrorist attack on Washington. Jeffrey
Archer's The Eleventh Commandment (HarperCollins Pounds 16.99) posits a CIA
operation intended to assassinate an extremist presidential candidate in a
post-Yeltsin Russia.

Away from cloak and dagger, the respective masters of gothic horror and the
legal thriller reworked their proven formulas substantially, but with patchy
results.Stephen King's Bag of Bones (Hodder Pounds 16.99) depicts a bestselling
novelist simultaneously taking on domestic ghosts and a neighbour's evil former
husband, and John Grisham underlines his social conscience in The Street Lawyer
(Century Pounds 10), in which the hero gives up his $ 120,000 salary as a rising
legal eagle to advise the poor.

British authors displayed more poise when taking risks, with Robert Harris
compellingly reimagined Stalin's Russia in Archangel (Hutchinson Pounds 16.99,
see Christmas fiction) and Philip Kerr, looking forward to a dystopic,
plague-ravaged planet earth in 2069 in The Second Angel (Orion Pounds 12.99),
skilfully blended science fiction and techno-thriller.

If the challenge for thriller writers is to rethink the genre for a changing
geopolitical order and cultural zeitgeist, crime writers (far more likely to
employ recurring protagonists and settings) need continually to revamp a
bestselling blueprint, balancing renovation and repetition. Among this year's
offerings from big-name Americans, Ed McBain's The Last Best Hope (Hodder Pounds
16.99), Lawrence Block's Everybody Dies (Orion Pounds 16.99) and Carl Hiaasen's
Lucky You (Macmillan Pounds 16.99) are all revisiting familiar territory; while
Patricia Cornwell's Point of Origin (Little, Brown Pounds 16.99) is a less
riveting tale of a female forensic analyst hunting a serial killer than the
newcomer Kathy Reich's impudently imitative Deja Dead (Heinemann Pounds 10) - a
case of margarine outclassing butter.

In contrast, Steven Saylor's Roman whodunit, A Murder on the Appian Way (Robson
Pounds 15.99) and Janet Evanovich's latest Stephanie Plum caper, Four to Score
(Macmillan Pounds 16.99) are remarkably fresh; and Robert B Parker's Small Vices
(J Murray Pounds 16.99) is every bit as vivid as his first Spenser mystery.
Elmore Leonard also looked anything but jaded, adventurously locating Cuba Libre
(Viking Pounds 16.99) in 1890s Havana. James Lee Burke's Sunset Limited (Orion
Pounds 16.99), Michael Connelly's Blood Work (Orion Pounds 16,99), Lynn S
Hightower's No Good Deed (Hodder Pounds 16.99) and Donna Leon's A Noble Radiance
(Heinemann Pounds 15.99) and Richard Price's Freedomland (Bloomsbury Pounds
16.99) - respectively set in New Orleans, Los Angeles, Cincinnati, Venice and
New Jersey - all show their authors on the very top of their form.

Also excelling were Britain's Michael Dibdin and Reginald Hill, both shortlisted
by the Crime Writers' Association for its Gold and Silver Dagger awards for the
crime novels of the year. Dibdin's A Long Finish (Faber Pounds 16.99) sends his
brooding Italian sleuth Aurelio Zen to Piedmont, to investigate the fatal
stabbing of a leading wine maker; Hill sets the rather different figure of Andy
Dalziel the challenge of tracing the person responsible for kidnapping or
killing several young girls from the same Yorkshire Dales village in On Beulah
Height (HarperCollins Pounds 16.99).

Ian Rankin's The Hanging Garden (Orion Pounds 16.99), Minette Walter's The
Breaker (Macmillan Pounds 16.99), Val McDermid's Star Struck (HarperCollins
Pounds 16.99) and Ruth Rendell's A Sight for Sore Eyes (Hutchinson Pounds 16.99)
display formidable consistency, particularly as such top-flight genre novelists
put their literary counterparts to shame by averaging a novel a year - or even
two, in Rendell's case, as her alter ego Barbara Vine penned the equally
well-wrought The Chimney-Sweeper's Boy (Viking Pounds 16.99).

Among the younger generation of crime writers, Nicholas Blincoe confirms the
promise of his previous work in Manchester Slingback (Picador Pounds 9.99), as
does Christopher Brookmyre in Not the End of the World (Little, Brown, Pounds
12.99). Leslie Forbes's ornate, atmospheric Bombay Ice (Phoenix House Pounds
16.99) is a shimmeringly impressive debut and joining them on bookshops' crime
shelves was a new work by the late Dorothy L Sayers. Jointly credited to her and
Jill Paton Walsh, who completed this discarded Peter Wimsey mystery, Thrones,
Dominations (Hodder Pounds 14.99) was pronounced by Ruth Rendell in these pages
to be superior to some novels wholly written by Sayers.

Top Five .

1. Sunset Limitedby James Lee Burke .

Lyrically written mystery, set in the Louisiana bayous .

2. A Long Finish by Michael Dibdin .

Ingeniously plotted Inspector Zen whodunit, set in wine country .

3. Four to Score by Janet Evanovich .

Another Stephanie Plum caper from the witty comic crimewriter .

4. On Beulah Height by Reginald Hill.

Complex psychological tale from the creator of Dalziel and Pascoe .

5. The Second Angel by Philip Kerr.

Britain's more admirable-than-Crichton sets techno-thriller in 2069 .


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Thrillers / Crime; Books for Christmas

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 7, 1998

Cook raises trial hopes

BYLINE: Ian Black in London and Nick Pelham in Tripoli

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 765 words


LIBYA could hand over the Lockerbie bombing suspects in the next fortnight,
Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday after Kofi Annan's talks with
Muammar Gadafy.

Mr Cook spoke of "qualified optimism" that the two men could be in custody by
December 21, the 10th anniversary of the worst terrorist incident in British
history.

But Libya sent out mixed signals, with the official Jamahiriya news agency
warning that it was not "reasonable" to solve the "Lockerbie problem" by then,
and later quoting the country's foreign ministry as saying that a solution was
closer following Saturday's "fruitful" talks with Mr Annan, the UN Secretary
-General.

Two hundred and seventy people died on Pan Am flight 103 and on the ground in
the Scottish border town four days before Christmas 1988.

With the surrender of two alleged intelligence officers now on the table for a
five-day annual session of Libya's General People's Congress, which starts
tomorrow, the stage seems set for confusion. There will be increased pressure on
Colonel Gadafy from African and Arab leaders anxious to end the affair.

On Saturday as Western leaders waited for results, the UN chief and his
entourage were kept waiting in the freezing cold before being driven an hour
across the desert to near Sirte. The talks were attended only by Mr Annan, his
host and an interpreter in a giant tent warmed by bonfires.

After 90 minutes with the Libyan leader, which the UN secretary-general
described later as a moment of "spacelessness, freedom, almost mystical", Mr
Annan returned to Tunisia saying a solution to the problem "will require time,
but not an inordinate amount of time".

Mr Cook said after talking to Mr Annan by telephone yesterday that he was "very
encouraged". "Neither of us is going to predict what Col Gadafy is going to do,
but I think you can sum up our mood as one of qualified optimism," he told BBC
TV's Breakfast with Frost.

Diplomats revealed that the Libyan leader had appeared to accept Mr Annan's
assurances that the US and Britain had no hidden agenda in pressing to bring the
suspects to trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands.

Col Gadafy had also been persuaded that UN sanctions, imposed because of Libya's
refusal to hand over Abdel Baset al-Megrahi and Al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah when they
were indicted in 1991, would be suspended and effectively lifted as soon as the
men landed in the Netherlands.

Crucially, though, he continued to object to what London and Washington insist
is their non-negotiable demand that if convicted the two men serve their
sentences in Scotland. But, the sources said, the UN chief's "personal
impression" was that the Libyan leader would come round to accepting that.

Mr Annan said he hoped internal Libyan discussions would be over "fairly
shortly". Yet Tripoli's insistence that the matter be put to the people's
congress seemed to promise a long haul rather than the "positive results very
soon" predicted by the foreign minster, Omar al-Muntasser, after he met Mr
Annan.

Libya watchers say the decision on a handover rests with the congress because it
is the only body which can overrule itself. In 1992, at Col Gadafy's initiation,
it ruled that the suspects would never be sent abroad.  "Congress puts distance
between Gadafy and the decision to hand over the two suspects," a UN source
said. But sceptics called it a tactic for delay.

Mr Cook's qualified optimism contrasted starkly with official "disappointment"
from the United States.

Britain says the December 21 anniversary is a significant day, but has not made
clear whether it is a deadline. "If it takes another few weeks then I have the
patience to see it through," Mr Cook said. US officials have said they would
consult the UN Security Council if nothing happened by that time.

British and US investigations into the case concluded that the Libyan agents had
planted a bomb on the plane, disguised as a radio-cassette player. The Libyans
are also accused of plotting the explosion that destroyed a French jetliner over
Niger in 1989, killing 171 people.

Experts believe Col Gadafy is manoeuvering to protect his regime from exposure
of high-level complicity in terrorism and that he may face problems because one
of the suspects belongs to a key tribe known for its lack of loyalty. But London
and Washington have repeatedly signalled that if the Libyan leader sacrificed
two relatively junior officers that would be the end of the story and the
beginning of rehabilitation for one of their "pariah" states.


LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 7, 1998

Cook raises trial hopes;
Libyan suspects may be in custody within weeks

BYLINE: IAN BLACK IN LONDON AND NICK PELHAM IN TRIPOLI

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 719 words


LIBYA could hand over the Lockerbie bombing suspects in the next fortnight,
Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, said yesterday after Kofi Annan's talks with
Muammar Gadafy.

Mr Cook spoke of "qualified optimism" that the two men could be in custody by
December 21, the 10th anniversary of the worst terrorist incident in British
history. In a statement issued last night Mr Annan, the UN secretary-general,
said: "We are well on the way to resolving the problem."

But Libya sent out mixed signals, with its official news agency warning that the
timeframe was not reasonable, and quoting the country's foreign ministry as
saying that a solution was closer after Saturday's "fruitful" talks.

Two hundred and seventy people died on Pan Am flight 103 and on the ground in
the Scottish border town four days before Christmas 1988.

With the surrender of two alleged intelligence officers now on the table for a
five-day annual session of Libya's General People's Congress, which starts
tomorrow, the stage seems set for confusion. There will be increased pressure on
Colonel Gadafy from African and Arab leaders anxious to end the affair.

On Saturday as Western leaders waited for results, the UN chief and his
entourage were kept waiting in the freezing cold before being driven across the
desert to near Sirte. Mr Annan, his host and an interpreter met in a giant tent
warmed by bonfires.

After 90 minutes with the Libyan leader, which the secretary-general described
later as a moment of "spacelessness, freedom, almost mystical", Mr Annan
returned to Tunisia saying a solution to the problem "will require time, but not
an inordinate amount of time".

Mr Cook said after talking to Mr Annan by telephone yesterday that he was "very
encouraged". "Neither of us is going to predict what Col Gadafy is going to do,
but I think you can sum up our mood as one of qualified optimism," he told BBC
TV's Breakfast with Frost.

Diplomats revealed that the Libyan leader had appeared to accept Mr Annan's
assurances that the US and Britain had no hidden agenda in pressing to bring the
suspects to trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands.

Col Gadafy had also been persuaded that UN sanctions, imposed because of Libya's
refusal to hand over Abdel Baset al-Megrahi and Al-Amin Khalifah Fhimah when
they were indicted in 1991, would be suspended and effectively lifted as soon as
the men landed in the Netherlands.

Crucially, though, he continued to object to what London and Washington insist
is their non-negotiable demand that if convicted the two men serve their
sentences in Scotland. But, the sources said, the UN chief's "personal
impression" was that the Libyan leader would eventually accept it.

Mr Annan said he hoped internal Libyan discussions would be over "fairly
shortly". Yet Tripoli's insistence that the matter be put to the people's
congress seemed to promise a long haul rather than the "positive results very
soon" predicted by the foreign minister, Omar al-Muntasser, after he met Mr
Annan.

Libya watchers say the decision on a handover rests with the congress because it
is the only body which can overrule itself. In 1992 it ruled that the suspects
would never be sent abroad. But sceptics say it is a tactic for delay.

Mr Cook's qualified optimism contrasted starkly with official "disappointment"
from the United States.

Britain says the December 21 anniversary is a significant day, but has not made
clear whether it is a deadline. "If it takes another few weeks then I have the
patience to see it through," Mr Cook said. US officials have said they would
consult the UN Security Council if nothing happened by that time.

British and US investigations into the case concluded that the Libyan agents had
planted a bomb on the plane, disguised as a radio-cassette player. The Libyans
are also accused of plotting the explosion that destroyed a French jetliner over
Niger in 1989, killing 171 people.

Experts believe Col Gadafy is manoeuvring to protect his regime from exposure of
high-level complicity in terrorism. But London and Washington have repeatedly
signalled that if the Libyan leader sacrificed two relatively junior officers
that would be the end of the story and the beginning of rehabilitation for one
of their "pariah" states.


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 7, 1998, Monday

Strange ethics that makes friends with a state that tortures children

BYLINE: By Fran Abrams Westminster Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page 3

LENGTH: 861 words


MINISTERS have maintained close contact with their counterparts in Bahrain
despite the country's record of torture and extra-judicial killings.

The warm relations between Britain and the Gulf state raise fresh questions
about the new "ethical dimension" which Robin Cook has introduced into Britain's
foreign policy.

Defence ministers meet regularly through a body called the Bahrain British
Defence Committee. Britain has 85 defence staff based in Bahrain and members of
the country's armed forces are invited to defence colleges in this country for
training.

Bahrain was among a number of countries whose governments were invited to the
Farnborough arms fair this year. In the 12 months after Labour won last year's
general election, 24 export licences were granted for weapons to Bahrain.
Exactly what has been sent is not clear but categories of arms approved for sale
include the groups which cover small arms, armoured vehicles and surveillance
systems.

A European Parliament resolution has called on EU member states to "refrain from
supplying arms or security support to the Government of Bahrain".

The country, which is a former British colony, has maintained close links with
the UK in many ways. For years, the head of security in Bahrain was a Scot, Ian
Henderson, who was responsible for prisons. He has now retired and another
British ex-serviceman, Colonel Thomas Bryan, has taken his place. The Minister
of the Interior recently appointed a British solicitor, David Jump, as his legal
adviser on human rights issues.

If Nato had gone ahead with bombing raids on Iraq this autumn, British Tornados
would have taken off from an air base in Bahrain, where they are stationed.

The Foreign Office minister with responsibility for the Middle East, Derek
Fatchett, told the House of Commons last year that campaigners for democracy in
Bahrain were "moderate people with a moderate set of demands".  He also raised
the issue of human rights in meetings with the Bahraini ambassador and other
senior figures.

However, close links which existed under the Conservative government still
continue. As we report on page one today, a lobbyist, Omar Al Hassan, now
administers the All-Party Bahrain Group in the House of Commons and recently
took nine MPs there on a trip.

Although there have been some violent terrorist attacks in Bahrain, most
pro-democracy campaigners say they would not condone such acts. They want a
restoration of the country's partially elected assembly, which was dissolved in
1975, but a petition signed by 25,000 people has brought little change.

Bahrain has signed the UN Convention Against Torture, but brutal treatment is
still used to extract confessions from suspected dissidents. The US state
department has estimated that in 1996 more than 3,000 people were detained, but
only 117 were convicted. Some 1,500 of them were still in detention at the end
of the year.

Many of those held are children - for example two 12-year-old boys were
arrested, beaten up and released in September this year. Their parents were not
told where they were. In July a 22-year-old, Nooh Khalil Abdulla al-Nooh, was
arrested. Two days later his mutilated body was handed back to his family, and
he was buried next to Saeed al-Iskafi, who suffered the same fate three years
earlier.

Human rights abuses in Bahrain have been documented by Amnesty International,
the US State Department, the Red Cross and the Human Rights Watch group.

Mr Al Hassan, the lobbyist for Bahrain who runs the Gulf Centre for Strategic
Studies, said 41 deaths in four years was no worse than the records of Britain,
Ireland or the United States.

"They were really killed by terrorists. They do everything against their
country. They are co-operating with extremists in Iran and other places," he
said.

A spokesman for the Bahrain Freedom Movement said Britain's close relations with
Bahrain should be used to apply pressure.

"So far we have seen some good statements from the Foreign Office and especially
Derek Fatchett, but apart from that no tangible action has been recorded," he
said.

Earlier this year Bahrain's ambassador to the UK, Abdul Aziz Muburak al Khalifa,
engaged the British lobbyist Sir Tim Bell to co-ordinate protests to the Labour
government after it granted asylum to three Bahraini dissidents.

In a memo to the ambassador, Sir Tim said the Foreign Office was "acutely
embarrassed" by the Home Office decision but could do little about it.

He suggested the Bahrainis should use all their contacts to seek meetings with
influential figures, including the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, and the Downing
Street advisers Roger Liddle and John Holmes.

While the decision could not be reversed, the Government should be told how
Bahrain had responded to Britain's more ethical foreign policy by opening up
dialogue with organisations including the Red Cross and Amnesty International.

A new, more open approach had also included the organisation of fact- finding
trips to Bahrain by British MPs "which have been positively received by all
involved", the memo said.


LOAD-DATE: December 07, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              55 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 9, 1998, Wednesday Edition 5

Families call for bomb inquiry

BYLINE: By JOHN DEANE

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 231 words


   Relatives of victims of the Lockerbie bombing will tomorrow ask Prime
Minister Tony Blair to launch an independent inquiry into the disaster.

Representatives of UK Families Flight 103 will go to Downing Street to press the
case for an inquiry.

The meeting, the first between the campaigning group and a Prime Minister, comes
ahead of the 10th anniversary of the terror attack, which claimed the lives of a
total of 270 people.

All 259 passengers and crew on board Pan Am Flight 103 died when the Jumbo jet
was blown out of the sky on December 21, 1988, while 11 more people were killed
when blazing wreckage from the plane smashed into the small Scottish town below.

Security

The UK Families group, which feels that neither the Fatal Accident Inquiry nor
the Air Accidents Investigation Branch report into the disaster laid bare the
chain of events which led to it, nor what it suspects were contributory Western
security lapses, has spent years calling for an independent inquiry.

Hopes are now high that Tripoli may soon surrender the two suspected Libyan
intelligence agents alleged by the United States and Britain to have planted the
bomb, so that they can stand trial in Holland, but under Scottish law.

Nevertheless, the UK Families group believes that an independent inquiry could
start immediately, with some evidence relating to security issues.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              56 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               December 10, 1998

Fresh Lockerbie probe urged

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.17

LENGTH: 254 words


RELATIVES of victims of the Lockerbie bombing will today ask Prime Minister Tony
Blair to launch an independent inquiry into the disaster.

Representatives of UK Families Flight 103 will go to Downing Street to press the
case for an inquiry.

The meeting - the first between the campaigning group and a Prime Minister -
comes ahead of the 10th anniversary of the terror attack, which claimed the
lives of 270 people.

All 259 passengers and crew on board Pan Am Flight 103 died when the Jumbo jet
was blown out of the sky on December 21, 1988, and 11 more people were killed
when blazing wreckage from the plane smashed into the town below.

The UK families group feels that neither the fatal accident inquiry nor the Air
Accidents Investigation Branch report into the disaster laid bare the chain of
events which led to it.

Hopes are now high that Tripoli may soon surrender the two suspected Libyan
intelligence agents alleged by the US and Britain to have planted the bomb, so
that they can stand trial in Holland, but under Scottish law.The group's
spokesman, Jim Swire, who lost his 23-year-old daughter, Flora, in the disaster,
said: "Our request will be that an inquiry be launched under an objective
chairman, with the authority to look behind the curtain of British
intelligence."

Dr Swire said the group, which failed to secure a meeting with either Margaret
Thatcher or John Major, was pleased that Mr Blair had agreed to the meeting,
even if it was 19 months since the Labour Government came to power.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 1998 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              57 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 11, 1998

'Vulnerable' atom plant ring fenced

BYLINE: John Bald

SECTION: Pg. 31

LENGTH: 322 words


FOR more than 40 years the Dounreay nuclear power plant has been at the centre
of Britain's drive to discover the secrets of atomic energy.

It has withstood the chill of the Cold War arms race, the break-up of the Soviet
Union, the terrorist hijackings of the 70s and decades of the Irish troubles.

But now managers are to erect a 20-foot high electrified fence around vital
areas because they fear it is vulnerable to attack.

The security upgrade was ordered after simulated terrorist attacks by the
Special Boat Squadron - the naval version of the SAS - successfully penetrated
several nuclear installations throughout Britain. The mile-long electrified
fence will ring sensitive 'fuel areas'.

Dounreay was embroiled in a political row earlier this year when the Government
said it would accept a consignment of weapons-grade uranium from Georgia.

Despite protests by environmentalists, Ministers insisted it was necessary to
keep the materials out of reach of terrorists by taking it to Dounreay.

Yesterday, Lynne Staples-Scott, a spokesman for the UK Atomic Energy Authority
confirmed the new electric fence was 'live'. She said: 'It is prudent as far as
security measures are concerned and brings us up to date.

'We put a high priority on safety. If anyone is foolish enough to try it, they
will either be caught or electrocuted.

'Some nuclear plants have already had them fitted and we think it is a wise
measure to keep people out.' Since 1959, Dounreay has been the scene of protests
for its work developing power technology and reprocessing highly radioactive
nuclear waste.

Controversy reached a peak earlier this year and mounting public concern
prompted the Government to announce the end of commercial reprocessing at the
plant.

A spokesman for the SNP which has been opposed to Dounreay for years, said:
'This is yet more evidence that Dounreay's security is appalling.'


LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              58 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                               December 14, 1998

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1550 words


Fear of united terror group

HARDLINE members of terror groups in Northern Ireland could be on the verge of
uniting in a bid to wreck the peace process.

The reports have prompted Irish police to increase security on the Ulster border
amid fears of fresh violence.

Extra armed units are operating in Co Louth and Co Monaghan.

It is feared that dissidents could be aiming to mount attacks under the label of
the Continuity IRA, the alleged military wing of Sinn Fein.

A number of leading Sinn Fein figures were arrested by police two months ago
after the party's annual conference and quizzed about the Continuity group.

It is believed that supporters of the Real IRA - the paramilitary group
responsible for the Omagh outrage in August - could be involved in renewed
threats to the peace agreement struck on Good Friday.

Meanwhile, the peace deal was expected to come under further attack from
hardline unionists when the Northern Ireland Assembly meets today.

Bob McCartney, UK Unionist leader, will table a motion highlighting what he sees
as the stark failures of the agreement so far and calling on First Minister
David Trimble to take urgent action.

The lack of paramilitary disarmament will also be debated.

But unionists have been accused of trying to provoke the IRA into ending its
ceasefire.

Gerry Kelly, the former IRA terrorist who is now Assembly member for north
Belfast, said: "It is increasingly my view that the UUP are engaged in an
attempt to frustrate the patience of the republican constituency and, by
undermining the credibility of politics, push the IRA back to war.

"In this way they hope to prove their own predictions of renewed IRA violence
and, thereby, resurrect the failed politics of exclusion and repression."

Clinton's peace appeal

US President Bill Clinton was today carrying an appeal for reconciliation with
Israel to Yasser Arafat in a ground -breaking trip to Palestinian-held
territory.

Landing at Gaza airport, the first-ever visit by an American President could
provide a morale boost to Palestinians in their drive for an independent state.

Clinton's appearance at a special session of the Palestine National Council
today was to be the centrepiece of his three-day Middle East trip aimed at
salvaging the crisis -plagued land-for-security peace accord he helped broker in
October.

The main dividend for Israel is the expected confirmation by the PNC that
clauses in its 1964 charter proposing the destruction of the Jewish state are
nullified.

For the nearly three million Palestinians who live on the West Bank and in Gaza,
the President's visit has symbolic significance, beginning with his arrival by
helicopter at their own international airport at Rafah.

Arafat, other top officials of the Palestinian Authority and an honour guard
were extending their greetings.

And, on the eastern edge of the strip, US Commerce Secretary William Daley was
opening an industrial zone.

A US-Palestinian commission, designed to improve economic ties, was also
meeting, and President Clinton was to address the PNC much as he would a
national legislature.

Still, Clinton and his senior aides say their intention was not to encourage
Palestinian statehood aspirations.

The issue remains to be considered in negotiations with Israel, they said

President Clinton appealed to Palestinians in Jerusalem to prove their peaceful
intentions "in word and deed".

He also urged Israel to acknowledge the "legitimate expectations" of their foes.

Sir Anthony: I quit 'wasteful' acting

Sir Anthony Hopkins is to quit acting - because he feels it is a threat to his
sanity, it was disclosed today.

The star of films such as Silence of the Lambs, Remains of the Day and
Shadowlands, who was knighted in 1993, told a newspaper he was disillusioned
with showbusiness, and felt it was "distasteful and disturbing".

"Acting is bad for the mental health. I can't take it any more. This has got to
stop. I have wasted my life," Sir Anthony said.

"To hell with this stupid showbusiness, this ridiculous showbiz, this futile
wasteful life.

"Yes, waste. I look back and see a desert wasteland. All those years spent in a
fake environment. Everything was a fake."

Sir Anthony, whose latest film is The Mask of Zorro, said he had struggled with
these feeling for five years, but only now had the courage to act.

He said he was ashamed of almost all of his films and "cringed with
embarrassment" when he looked back on his 35-year career.

Sir Anthony, who spends much of his time in Los Angeles, said he had many other
interests which would occupy his time, including music, writing and travelling.

Britain tonight

Raids bonanza

Santa Claus may not be the only one slipping into homes unnoticed over the
festive season, as seasonal burglars are also on the prowl, tempted by the
promise of expensive presents such as computers, video games and stereo
equipment. Home Office figures show that domestic burglaries reached a peak over
the festive period last year, while Guardian Insurance found that the number of
claims rose by 180% in December 1997 compared to the following January.

Pinochet bid

FORMER Chilean dictator General Augusto Pinochet is to try to challenge Home
Secretary Jack Straw's decision to authorise the extradition process against
him, it emerged today. Lawyers for the 83-year-old general said they would go to
the High Court at a future date to seek leave to challenge Mr Straw's decision
to issue a so-called Authority to Proceed under the Extradition Act 1989.

Sea search

THE search resumed today for three men missing after their dinghy capsized off
the island of Mull. Coastguards said there was little hope of finding the men,
who were part of a group of five, alive. One of the party swam ashore and is in
hospital and one body has been found.

'Car wars' rage

Car journeys are a nightmare for the majority of children because of their
parents' constant arguments and bad driving manners, according to a new survey
for the CGU Insurance company. Children revealed how mums and dads bicker, shout
and swear at other drivers, jump red lights and break the speed laws. More than
half of the children (53%) said "car wars" broke out frequently, particularly on
long journeys.

Santa bid flops

A world record attempt for the biggest gathering of Santas ended in
disappointment when organisers expecting over 500 were greeted by only two.
Bosses at Granada Studios in Manchester were left red faced after inviting the
public to dress up as Father Christmas in a bid to get them in the Guinness Book
or Records. But as organisers eagerly awaited the arrival of scores of fat,
bearded men, dressed in red and ho-ho -hoing, they were greeted by only two
small children,

TV service row

The BBC was today accused of helping make Christmas a "hollow excuse for a
winter holiday" by not televising a formal religious service on December 25.
Liberal Democrat MP Simon Hughes demanded that a service be announced for next
year, following criticism from the Church of England.

World tonight

Computer clue

EXPERTS probing the tragedy of Swissair flight 111 are focusing on computer
readouts seconds before all flight recording systems failed. One investigator
said the "system went haywire" minutes before the MD-11 airliner crashed off the
Canadian coast.

Economic deal

NORTH Korea has dropped demand for $300 million in "reparations" for a US
inspection of a suspected nuclear weapons site in exchange for food and other
economic benefits, Seoul newspapers reported today. The agreement was reached
during a series of negotiations.

Cyprus talks

US MEDIATOR Richard Holbrooke has made moves to bring the hostile Greek and
Turkish communities in Cyprus closer together. After meeting business leaders on
the war-divided island, Mr Holbrooke said he hoped some progress had been made
to make life "a little easier" for the one million people on the island.

Business gloom

BUSINESS confidence manufacturers has fallen to a record low in Japan. The
central bank said confidence had dipped in the past three months because of the
country's prolonged slump and a credit "crunch".

Lion's share

A SHIRT worn by Leonardo DiCaprio in Titanic fetched thousands of dollars at a
Hollywood memorabilia auction, but did not get close to the Cowardly Lion
costume worn by Bert Lahr in The Wizard of Oz, which sold for $250,000. The
shirt went for $10,000, while a Batman suit fetched $60,000.

Prosecutor dies

WILLIAM Denson, who was chief prosecutor for the United States in Nazi war
crimes trials in Dachau, died yesterday aged 85. Denson, who dealt with
atrocities committed in four concentration camps, died in his sleep at home in
Lawrence, New York.

Athletes killed

TWO top Brazilian athletes have died in a car crash. Long-jumper Douglas de
Souza, 26, and triple-jumper Gustavo Lima Pinto, 21, were killed when the car
crashed near Porto Alegre, the state capital of Rio Grande de Sul.

Man missing

AN American newspaper correspondent was listed as missing yesterday, two weeks
after setting out for a hike in the Sierra Madre Occidental mountains, western
Mexico. Philip True, who works for the San Antonio Express-News, headed into the
mountains on November 29, hoping to photograph the Huichol Indians who live
there.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STATE VISIT: Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu and President
Bill Clinton put on skullcaps to light a Hanukkah candle during a dinner in
honour of Mr Clinton Sir Antony Hopkins

                     Copyright 1998 Nottingham Evening Post

                              59 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 15, 1998

LOCKERBIE;
 24 hours

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 89 words


Relatives of victims of the Lockerbie bombing are steeling themselves for the
10th anniversary of the disaster, fortified by the expectation that the two men
accused of carrying out the attack will be surrendered for trial soon.

A series of events will mark the anniversary of the terrorist attack - Britain's
worst ever mass murder - in which 270 people were killed on December 21, 1988.
Expectations are rising that Libya will surrender its two suspected intelligence
agents, who America and Britain accuse of the bombing.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              60 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 16, 1998

Libya backs proposal for Lockerbie trial in Holland

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words


PROSPECTS for the surrender of the Lockerbie bombing suspects improved
dramatically last night after Libya's General People's Congress said it accepted
a British-American proposal for a trial in the Netherlands.

With days to go before the 10th anniversary of the worst terrorist incident in
British history, an announcement from Tripoli said the congress had "expressed
satisfaction" with the offer, though it made no mention of handing over the two
accused.

The Foreign Office said Britain needed a formal response from Libya via the
United Nations, though it called initial reports "very encouraging." But one
Tripoli-based diplomat said: 'It means that they will hand over the suspects
sooner rather than later."

Jim Swire, whose daughter, Flora, was one of the 270 victims of the bombing on
December 21, 1988, said: "The fact that they now appear to have agreed to the
handover is a crucial part of the process. But I think everyone involved will
have learned enough by now to know that it's wise to wait until actual handover
occurs before saying it is . . . in the bag."

Kofi Annan, the United Nations secretary general, who met Colonel Muammar Gadafy
10 days ago, called the move "encouraging" but would say no more until he had
met the Libyan ambassador to the UN. Britain's UN ambassador, Jeremy Greenstock,
will be in close touch with Mr Annan, officials said last night.

In the past Libya has insisted that if Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa
Fhimah are convicted, they would have to serve their sentences in Libya or
Holland. But the US and Britain have rejected this, and said the issue is
non-negotiable. Yesterday's Libyan statement may have been referring to this
when it called for the "removal of obstacles".  Tripoli also wants to be certain
that UN sanctions, in force since 1992, will be effectively lifted when the men
are surrendered.

Yesterday's resolution, read live on Libyan television, said: "(The Congress)
expresses its satisfaction with the agreement between the Libyan, British and
American parties for the trial in a third country of the two suspects in the
Lockerbie incident. It constitutes the fundamental basis to settle this issue.

"It (the Congress) demands these parties (Libya, the United States and Britain)
work to remove any obstacle that prevents the two suspects standing trial before
justice as soon as possible."

Lockerbie anniversary, pages 10 and 11


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 16, 1998
                              Correction Appended

Lockerbie Anniversary: 'They were so young: average age 25. God picked the best
that day':;
Ten years ago he was a small town doctor. Since his daughter's death, he has
become a crusader. Ian Black on a man for whom campaigning has become a way of
coping with grief

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 840 words


JIM Swire well remembers the first time he met Muammar Gadafy, surrounded by
bodyguards in his desert bunker, and tried to pin a badge saying "Pan Am 103 -
the Truth Must be Known" on the Libyan leader's green robe.

"As I approached I could hear click click click as all the safety catches came
off," he says with a grin and apparently genuine relish at the memory.

"I was terrified. I didn't know if he'd take me hostage or shoot me, or what. I
was a totally naive, Middle England, country town GP. What did I know about what
Gadafy might do? I had left letters with my sister and bank in case I didn't
come back."

Ten years on from the Lockerbie disaster, Dr Swire knows much more about Gadafy,
aviation security, explosives, international conspiracies and forensic evidence
than he did before his life changed forever on December 21, 1988.

Still struggling to come to terms with the murder of his eldest daughter, the
talented, beautiful Flora - just 23 when she died - he acknowledges that his
long crusade is part of coming to terms with his bereavement. Jane, his wife,
does not find that it helps her.

"It is my way of coping," he said earlier this week after visiting Westminster
Abbey to help to prepare next Monday's memorial service, when the names of the
270 victims are to be read, and a candle lit for each.

Lockerbie consumes Jim Swire. Last Thursday he took part in UK Families Flight
103 meeting with Tony Blair - their first with a British prime minister. On
Sunday he flew to Geneva to meet Libya's UN ambassador and returned still
convinced - despite an apparently inconclusive meeting between Col Gadafy and
Kofi Annan, the UN secretary general - that the two suspects will be handed over
"within weeks."

And yesterday his shock of white hair and thin face were on every TV screen in
the land when the Libyan People's Congress announced that it had accepted the
proposal for a trial in the Netherlands.

He has been back to Libya three times since his first encounter with Col Gadafy
in December 1991, most recently in April - before the Guardian broke the news
that Britain and the United States had accepted a trial under Scottish law in a
neutral venue.

That was a high point - vindication of years of stubborn insistence that without
a change of heart by London and Washington there never would be justice. A low
one was the fatal accident inquiry - a Scottish inquest - which Dr Swire still
insists was totally inadequate because it failed to discuss intelligence
matters, including the crucial question of unheeded warnings of terrorist
attacks.

Over the years his own life has altered beyond recognition. After spending six
days waiting for his first appointment with the Libyan leader, he lost his
partnership in a Bromsgrove general practice. Since then he has worked part
time, which gives him the flexibility he needs, though he still worries he may
have to sell his house.

"I have freedom but I don't have very much money," he says without rancour,
"though its worked out well for the cause."

Campaigning has been helped by contributions from the late Tiny Rowland, who had
business interests in Libya, and free airline tickets from Richard Branson. Only
half of the 30-odd British families are actively involved.

Links with relatives of the 189 American victims have been poor. Dr Swire's own
deep suspicion of the US shows why.

He told Col Gadafy they had in common the murder of their daughters - the Libyan
leader's by America's bombs in 1986, and Flora by "someone's" two years later.

And he still believes that Libya was not alone, arguing that Iran - the initial
suspect - had a powerful motive in seeking revenge for the accidental shooting
down of an Iranian Airbus by an American cruiser in the Gulf six months earlier.

"In a murder mystery, motive is vital," he says. "Libya had a motive but Iran's
was fresher and stronger."

Now there is real hope for a handover and a trial but there is no certainty of a
conviction, - and, worse, a nagging fear that the evidence may be thrown out and
the truth never be known.

"Some want retribution, but for us the most important thing is the exposure of
the evidence."

Dr Swire is full of praise for Mr Blair and the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook,
for backing the neutral country idea - and still furious at the "bloody
arrogance" of Margaret Thatcher and John Major.

Recent weeks have seen a inevitable spate of anniversary articles and
programmes, with one newspaper dwelling in what Dr Swire calls "voyeuristic"
detail on the suffering and injuries of the victims. Unending publicity is part
of the price he and his family have had to pay.

Like others, he has found consolation in friendships born of the tragedy: his
closest is with Pentecostalist minister John Mosey, whose 19-year-old daughter
Helga - who like Flora was once a pupil at Birmingham's St Edward VI School -
also died at Lockerbie. "We frequently tell each other we wish we'd never met,"
Mr Mosey laughs.


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: December 21, 1998

CORRECTION:  THE NAME of the Birmingham school referred to in the second of our
Lockerbie anniversary pages, Page 11, December 16, should have been King Edward
VI, not St Edward VI.


                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 16, 1998

Inspector's censure of Iraq risks new clash

BYLINE: IAN BLACK, AND MARK TRAN IN NEW YORK

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 626 words


BRITAIN and the United States could face a new confrontation with Iraq today as
the United Nations' chief arms inspector publishes a damning account of
Baghdad's failure to comply with weapons monitoring.

With both Washington and London insisting yesterday that they are sticking to
their threat of punitive attacks without warning, diplomats predicted that
Richard Butler, head of the UN special commission, Unscom, might trigger a
Christmas crisis in the Gulf.

Under threat of US and British air strikes, Iraq promised in mid-November to
resume full co-operation with inspectors and allow unfettered access to both
sites and documents. But British officials yesterday cited Iraq's refusal to
allow inspection of the headquarters of the ruling Ba'ath party in Baghdad on
December 9; Iraq's new conditions for inspecting sensitive sites; the refusal to
allow inspections on Fridays; and attempts to impose restrictions on
interviewing Iraqi personnel and the use of helicopters by Unscom.

Iraq has also failed to provide documents, including one snatched from UN
inspectors this year detailing the use of chemical munitions during Iraq's
eight-year war against Iran.

'Butler's report will be pretty definitive but factual and won't have any spin,"
said a senior Foreign Office source. 'But we said last time we wouldn't give any
warning next time we acted. No decisions have been taken, but people are gearing
up for Iraq being a serious issue in the next few days.'

Russia and France, Iraq's closest supporters on the UN Security Council, would
be certain to oppose any new military action, so a likely alternative would be
for the US and Britain to drop support for a comprehensive review of policy
towards Iraq, held out to Saddam Hussein as a carrot to induce co-operation.

The Iraqis believe such a review offers the quickest route to lifting the tough
economic sanctions imposed after the 1990 invasion of Kuwait. But Washington and
London insist there is no link, and a review will only show what Iraq needs to
do to fully disarm.

Under the ceasefire resolution at the end of the Gulf war in 1991, sanctions
against the sale of oil - the mainstay of Iraq's economy - cannot be lifted
until Unscom and the International Atomic Energy Agency certify that Iraq's
weapons of mass destruction have been destroyed.

Iraq yesterday launched a pre-emptive attack in advance of Mr Butler's latest
report card. In its version of events, it blamed 'provocative and intrusive'
behaviour by inspectors for the standoff at the Ba'ath party office.

It also argued that UN inspectors had failed to follow procedures laid down in a
June 1996 memorandum agreed to by Rolf Ekeus, Mr Butler's predecessor as head of
Unscom, which laid down 'modalities' for inspecting sensitive sites.

The memo said teams of only four inspectors should visit such sites. But Unscom
argues that those modalities proved unworkable and have been superseded by
procedures providing for immediate and unconditional entry. In the December 9
run-in, Iraqi officials allowed four inspectors to tour the site's yard.

Iraqi documents gave a day-by-day account of inspections, although Unscom
insists this is incomplete.

The Pentagon has 'very credible and disturbing information' of a potential
attack against Americans in the Gulf and has asked US troops to take
precautions, a spokesman said last night.

US embassies in Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, United Arab Emirates and Bahrain issued a
statement on Sunday saying there was 'a strong possibility that terrorist
elements are planning an attack against US targets in the Gulf, possibly in the
next 30 days'.

The Pentagon spokesman said military personnel had been advised to stay on their
bases.


LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 17, 1998, Thursday

BRITAIN'S LITTLE BRAVE HEARTS

BYLINE: By Lorraine Fisher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 368 words


TWO kids horribly injured in terror bombings were honoured yesterday for their
incredible bravery.

Omagh victim Emmet McLaughlin and Cape Town casualty Laura Giddings were given a
grand tour of 10 Downing Street by Premier Tony Blair and his wife Cherie.

At one point Laura, eight, sat on the floor, took off her shoe and sock, and
showed Cherie her artificial foot. "Thank goodness she was wearing clean socks,"
said mum Mandy.

Laura and Emmet were among a group of excited youngsters hailed as Children of
Courage.

They were allowed to sit round the Cabinet table before receiving medallions
from the Duchess of Kent at Westminster Abbey.

Emmet, nine, of Buncranna, Co Donegal, amazed doctors with his courage after his
cousin, Oran Doherty and two friends, James Barker and Sean McLaughlin died in
the Omagh blast.

The little fighter, who had shrapnel removed from his bowel and suffered severe
burns to his hands and face, said: "My hands are still real scratchy and itchy
sometimes."

Emmet, greeted by Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam, added: "After the bomb I just
wanted to see my mum, dad and friends."

Laura, of Bramshaw, Hants, had to have her foot amputated after the summer
bombing of Planet Hollywood in Cape Town.

She said of her Whitehall visit: "It was fun. I enjoyed meeting Mrs Blair the
most - she's a lovely lady.

"My artificial foot never gets smelly, that's why it's so good. I never have to
change my sock or cut my toenails or anything horrible like that."

Three of the other kids honoured yesterday were disease victims Leah Knight, 14,
of Ashford, Kent, Marianne Le Coyte, 12, from Swindon and Jason Moreira, nine,
of Hillingdon, north London.

Also feted was Hull's David Henderson, 12, who acts as his blind mum's "eyes"
and Andrew Jackson, 12, of Manchester, who saved brother Ashley, 10, from a
fire.

Another winner, 10-year-old Gordon Murray, of Stornoway, has raised pounds
13,000 for a hospital since a crash left him paralysed.

Nathan Tuckey, six, of Banbury, was honoured after surviving 54 per cent burns
when he fell in the bath.

And a posthumous award went to cancer victim Adam Line, 11, who lived on the
Isle of Wight.

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: My hands are still scratchy and itchy sometimes and a piece of metal
got stuck in my stomach;; -Omagh Victim Emmet Mclaughlin Who Met Mo Mowlam;; My
artificial foot"s so good..I never have to change my sock;; - Planet Hollywood
Blast Girl Laura Giddings

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              64 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               December 18, 1998

poundiIraqitargets

SECTION: Armed Forces: Soldiers, Pg.3

LENGTH: 446 words


asting - begins.

Onlookers said Baghdad citizens were walking around casually as last night's
bombs exploded on the horizon.

An observer said: "Many are treating it just like a firework display. People
were just awaiting the dawn to see what sort of damage has been inflicted.

"But at the height of the attack they were watching the bombing from their
bedroom windows and driving their cars around the city streets as normal."

Addressing the US people, President Bill Clinton said Iraq had prevented UN
weapons inspectors from doing their job.

"This situation presents a clear and present danger to the stability of the
Persian Gulf and the safety of people everywhere.

"The international community gave Saddam one last chance to resume co-operation
with the weapons' inspectors. Saddam has failed to seize the chance and so we
had to act and act now," Mr Clinton said.

Just hours after the attacks began US Republicans agreed to a brief delay in
impeachment proceedings against President Clinton, even though many of them
suggested the air strikes were politically motivated.

As British forces went into action, British civilians holidaying in Israel were
preparing for evacuation.

Britain's largest holiday company, Thomson, is to evacuate over 700 British
holidaymakers from the Israeli resort of Eilat today.

Thomson's decision came as the Foreign Office issued new travel advice warning
Britons not to travel to Kuwait, Israel or the occupied territories in the wake
of the air strikes on Iraq.

A group of about 30 protesters from the Islamic group Al-Muhajiroun gathered
outside Downing Street condemning the air strikes and chanting "kill Tony
Blair".

As the protest continued, police were investigating the defacing of the
Cenotaph.

Under the inscription The Glorious Dead etched on to the war memorial fresh
graffiti from a spray can read in capital letters 'TONY NOT IN MY NAME.'

Meanwhile, protesters from Al-Muhajiroun continued chanting slogans in the
direction of the Downing Street gates, shouting "US, we want your blood, UK we
want your blood."

They also chanted "Tony Blair you must pay" and "US forces go to hell."

Other protesters apparently unconnected with the group turned up to condemn the
bombing, including members of the Workers' Communist Party of Iraq (Britain).

Middle East author and expert Hazhir Teimourian warned British and American
interests could be targeted by Islamic extremists for revenge attacks in the
wake of the air strikes.

The warning raised fears of a repeat of the bomb attacks - blamed on Saudi
renegade Osama bin Laden - on US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania earlier this
year that killed 224 people and injured 1,500.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1998 The Sentinel

                              65 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               December 19, 1998

He's a threat to all of us
 SADDAM: Why there can be no peace while this man is still around

BYLINE: N By David Reynolds Plymouth Defence Analyst

SECTION: Pg.3

LENGTH: 697 words


THE Iraqi threat is much greater than the British public may think. Iraq has
long had the capability to produce chemical weapons, but in the past five years
Saddam's scientists have engineered nuclear technology which they could use with
devastating results.

With the growing numbers of extremist terror groups which ally themselves to
Iraq's struggle, the threat of a nuclear attack in the US or the UK by means of
a small 'suitcase bomb' has significantly grown in the past 18 months.

Of course, the more liberal among us will claim that, in a free world, Iraq
should be allowed to build her own nuclear programme - but such comments can
only come from those who have never experienced the callous disregard for life
that Saddam's regime inflicts on the weak and vulnerable, which I witnessed in
1991.

The threat of a terrorist attack is very high. Next time you travel, take a look
at the X-ray machines as you step forward to the departure lounge. They have all
been upgraded and those which check your bags behind the scenes will now wipe
your holiday film clean if you leave it in your suitcase.

Saddam's lifeblood is power, and his henchmen in the secret police rule Iraq
with an iron fist of violence which was demonstrated in Kuwait when his forces
hung bodies of tortured women and children from lamp-posts and butchered entire
families.

I know, because I was among the first people into liberated Kuwait and many of
the acts of torture which I witnessed defy belief unless you were there yourself
to experience the smell of death in the streets.

In the years leading up to the Gulf War in 1991, Iraq's military scientists were
ordered to give priority to the development of chemical and biological weapons
which they then tested on an innocent village in Iran at the end of the war
between the two countries - the results were sickeningly devastating.

This Nazi-style operation was ordered to ensure their weapons were effective. It
was, and hundreds of women and children were gassed as they stood in the
streets, their deaths recorded by Iranian TV and Iraqi secret police who,
wearing protective clothing, flew in to photograph the bodies.

During the Gulf War, a key priority for SAS units was to locate chemical
factories inside Iraq, which were then bombed by RAF Tornados. The operation was
successful, but, since the war, Iraq has continued to develop these weapons of
mass destruction and hide them from UN inspection teams.

For the past few years, former Army officers, including two from Plymouth, have
worked in Baghdad as part of the UN verification and inspection teams to ensure
that all Iraqi biological and chemical weapons are destroyed - part of the
ceasefire agreement signed at the end of the war.

But they have been hoodwinked and hindered throughout their work, while behind
the scenes the Iraqi military machine builds its chemicals and biological power
as well as developing nuclear weapons which Richard Butler, the head of the
Iispection team, revealed two days ago in his report.

President Clinton and Prime Minister Blair have clearly listened to their
advisers and opted to try to eliminate the threat before Saddam has the chance
to use it against the West. And he will use it, if given the chance.

They must now ensure that their strategic ambition cripples the Butcher of
Baghdad permanently - if not, he will bite back with an attack, possibly mounted
by an extremist terror group.

- See 24 Hours - Page 17

EXPERT OPINION David Reynolds

Plymouth defence analyst David Reynolds is no stranger to conflict in the Gulf.
He was among the first handful of journalists to make it into Kuwait City during
the last Gulf War in 1991, arriving before the British Special Forces. David,
40, started his career in the Royal Marines, serving across the globe. He then
moved into journalism, working with the Daily and Sunday Express in the late
1980s and early 1990s. Now he runs a small public relations company specialising
in the defence industry and Ministry of Defence work. He has also written three
books on the military, including one on the Gulf War.

Do you think Britain is right to help the US blitz Saddam? Fax, E-mail or write
to POSTBAG

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1998 Evening Herald

                              66 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 19, 1998

INLA members to get early release

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 323 words


Members of the outlawed Irish National Liberation Army are to qualify for early
release from prison in the Irish Republic, it was announced last night.

The development was confirmed by Irish Justice Minister John O'Donoghue as five
IRA men serving sentences for offences in Great Britain were transferred to
Ireland. The five included Michael Gallagher, from Glasgow, whose parents live
in County Donegal.

He was jailed for 20 years for supporting the gang that carried out a mortar
bomb attack on Heathrow Airport, London, in 1994.

Nine members of the INLA - a hard-line republican splinter group which called a
ceasefire in August - are currently serving sentences alongside 25 IRA men in
the Irish Republic's top security jail, Portlaoise, 50 miles west of Dublin.

In a statement Mr O'Donoghue said: "The Government has decided that INLA
prisoners should be regarded as qualifying prisoners under the provisions of the
Good Friday Multi-Party Agreement."

The development is seen as another vote of confidence in the Northern Ireland
peace process along with yesterday's prison moves.

The five IRA men were flown from the British jurisdiction in an Irish
Government-chartered jet to Casement aerodrome near Dublin before being taken to
Portlaoise under a heavy security escort.

The group also includes Patrick Kelly and James Murphy, jailed for conspiracy to
cause explosions in London after a police raid in Hammersmith two years ago,
when another IRA man was shot dead by officers.

Kelly, 32, from County Longford is serving 20 years and Murphy, 27, from
Limerick was sentenced to 17 years in prison.

The remaining men were Englishman Ian Taylor, 55, serving a 30-year term for
planting a bomb in a litter bin outside Harrods store in London in 1993 and John
Kinsella, 54, from Dublin, sentenced to 16 years in connection with a bomb
attack on Warrington gas works in Cheshire in the same year.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: The first gun to be destroyed in the weapons handover scheme being cut
up in a Belfast workshop yesterday Picture: JOHN GILES/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 20, 1998

70-hour blitz leaves Saddam forces 'in ruins'

BYLINE: BY PATRICK WINTOUR LONDON AND JULIAN BORGER WASHINGTON

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words


THE UNITED States and Britain last night jointly announced the end of the
70-hour bombing blitz on Iraq, claiming all their key objectives had been
achieved and the world was a safer place.

President Clinton and Tony Blair, speaking simultaneously in Washington and
Downing Street at 11pm, said the punitive campaign had always only been intended
to last four days.

The ending of the campaign - with Saddam Hussein apparently safe in power and UN
weapons inspectors permanently expelled from the country - is bound to provoke a
fierce political debate.  There are likely to be sharp differences over both its
ethical value and military impact.

Clinton said last night: 'I am confident that we have achieved our mission. We
have inflicted significant damage on Saddam's weapons of mass destruction
programme.'

Blair, speaking from the steps of Downing Street, insisted: 'Tonight significant
parts of Saddam's military infrastructure are in ruins. His ability to threaten
his region has been diminished.'

The two governments will now work on winning international support, especially
from the French, for a Saddam 'containment strategy'.

It will include a widened international military force stationed outside Iraq to
ensure that Saddam does not seek to rebuild his military base. Blair and Clinton
are likely to seek UN support for resolutions imposing no-fly and no -drive
conditions on Saddam's army and air force.

The UN weapons inspection regime conducted inside Iraq is expected to be
shelved, but America and Britain will press for continued sanctions.

Blair said a full military impact assessment of the bombing campaign would not
be available until today. Defending the campaign, Blair said: 'Substantial
damage has been inflicted upon Saddam's air defence systems, the command and
control system for his armed forces, his missile production capability, and the
systems which could be used for chemical and biological warfare.'

He also claimed: 'There has been real damage done to the Special Republican
Guard organisation, the elite of his armed forces, heavily involved in the
weapons of mass destruction programme.

'We have attacked targets with the greatest precision to minimise civilian
casualties to the greatest extent possible.'

Clinton also promised that the sanctions - which cost Iraq about pounds 120
billion a year - would continue. He added: 'At the same time we will support a
continuation of the oil-for-food programme, which generates more than pounds 10
billion a year for food, medicine and other critical humantarian supplies to the
Iraqi people. We will insist the Iraqis' money be used for food, not tax.'

He vowed that if the UN weapons inspectors, Unscom, were not allowed to return,
force would be used if Iraq attempts to rebuild its military programme.

The news of the end of the blitz was greeted with jubilation in Baghdad. Iraq's
refusal to co-operate with the inspectors provoked the launch of the bombing
campaign last Wednesday.

Clinton warned that the US would retain 'a strong military presence' in the Gulf
and would remain ready to use it if necessary. He said the US would continue to
support sanctions against Iraq.  He also insisted that he would support the
swift return of Unscom inspectors, even though British sources now admit this is
impossible in the forseeable future.

UK Defence Secretary George Robertson said the US and Britain had attacked 100
Iraqi targets, ranging from the Republican Guard headquarters to pilotless
'drones of death', which he said were capable of launching anthrax attacks on
Kuwait. More than 300 Tomahawk cruise missiles and about 100 air-launched cruise
missiles were fired from warships and B52 bombers during the campaign, and RAF
Tornadoes carried out three separate raids.

Government sources said the bombing had badly damaged the 15,000-strong
Republican Guard and weakened Saddam's military and political power base.
However, the sources did not expect to see Saddam toppled in the short term.

The news of the end of the bombing campaign after a fourth night of raids
launched at the start of Ramadan helped provoke tens of thousands of rioters to
parade through the streets of the Syrian capital, Damascus - often described as
'the beating heart of the Arab world' - and attacks on the American ambassador's
home and the British embassy.

President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, a key ally for the US, had also called for the
air raids to end immediately, but British sources insisted that external
pressure played no part in the decision to call a halt to the military
operations against Iraq.

If there had ever been any doubt over whether to launch a fourth night of raids,
the pressure to do so probably became overwhelming when General Henry Shelton,
Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, acknowledged the strikes on the first
three nights had been only partly successful.

However, the decision to undertake the strikes did not require a fresh
conversation between Clinton and Blair, who did not speak until well after the
raids had been launched.

Earlier both Blair and Clinton had sent broadcast messages into the Middle East
insisting they respected the sensitivity of Ramadan.

Clinton said the attacks were in the interests of the entire Middle East. 'We
have the most profound admiration for Islam. Our dispute is with a Muslim leader
who threatens Muslims and non-Muslims alike.'

But the British Government - aware of the imminent protests - tried to prepare
the ground by fielding its most senior Ministers to condemn Saddam's human
rights record and his use of chemical weapons.  Defending the ethical basis of
the raids, despite reports of over 100 civilian deaths, Blair labelled Saddam as
a 'threat to world order'.

The Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, widened the attack by characterising Iraq as
a terror state.

In a sign that the Government was aware that support for the bombings is
fragile, Cook earlier opened an ethical dimension to the campaign by denouncing
Saddam as someone who represented 'extraordinary evil'.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              68 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 20, 1998

The prisoner ate a hearty meal...;
 What do you do with a man who is now not the Hyde Park bomber? Well, you

BYLINE: RORY CARROLL

SECTION: The Observer Review Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1045 words


The man who was once Britain's most hated prisoner scans the menu and hesitates.
He's not used to choice. It's one of those smart new London restaurants and the
dishes sound strange. Assured it's edible, he settles on chopped liver salad and
leans back in his chair, peering intently behind round spectacles.

No fellow diners return the stare, for although they may have heard of him, they
don't know what he looks like. Not now anyway. Those with good memories might
recall a photograph of a skinny young man with bushy hair and a cheesy grin, but
Danny McNamee, now 38, has changed. The picture that every newspaper used during
his trial is outdated, erased by 12 years of prison. What's left of the red hair
is retreating up his head and he rarely smiles.

Maybe the anonymity is good. He can wander out into Camden High Street and
stroll to Hyde Park, maybe look at the Change of the Guard. No one will bat an
eye. No one will point and shout: It's him, the one who killed four members of
the Household Cavalry and seven horses in the IRA's 1982 car bomb.

At his trial in 1987 McNamee was branded the 'master-bomber'. Some newspapers
linked him to 97 deaths, and he was sentenced to 25 years. He was released last
month under the terms of the Good Friday Agreement. When we met for lunch last
Monday he was waiting for the Court of Appeal to decide whether to quash his
conviction for conspiracy to cause explosions. Although already a free man, the
decision means everything to him: vindication, the chance to rebuild his life,
to right a wrong. He and his supporters believe his is possibly the last
miscarriage of justice case from the Troubles.

He agreed to meet me to explain the intricacies of his appeal and, sort of,
allow a peek at his personality. After 12 years of his own company, however, he
finds it difficult to open up. 'Ah, you're not wanting to talk about girlfriends
and that, are you?' he says, aghast.

Well, yes actually.

'Ah come on, I'd rather not. Let's leave that be.' What about Queens University
- fun? 'I'd a great time, just general messing around and drinking. They almost
threw me out. Too much socialising.' Chasing girls, were you? 'Ah now, stop.'
There's a lot on his mind. Adjusting to life outside is traumatic enough without
the appeal hanging over him, he says, patting his stomach. It bulges slightly
over tight denims. 'I've put on two stone since I got out.' The salad arrives
and he examines the lettuce. It looks, he says, very green. He sips from a mug
of black coffee and tries the liver. He approves. But then his experience of
English cuisine doesn't extend beyond Brixton and Parkhurst. Places where you
don't have to tip.

The accent is undistilled South Armagh, a republican heartland bordering the
Irish Republic. Some of the Guildford Four and Birmingham Six emerged from
decades in English prisons with Cockney cadences. But not McNamee. From the
moment he was arrested in 1986 he was kept in secure units maximum security, a
cell to himself. Not a way to hone social skills, but friends say he emerged
surprisingly well adjusted.

On the way to the restaurant he panicked after being driven the wrong way up a
one-way street. Traffic is often a problem for new releases. He talks often of
innocent prisoners still inside - a good sign because it shows he's not obsessed
about his own case.

It started the moment soldiers kicked in the door of his flat in Crossmaglen and
dragged him out of bed. At the time, he didn't panic. Not even when they took
him to Bessbrook Military Barracks. He figured it was just an attempt to disrupt
his wedding, arranged for six days later. That's the sort of harassment many
young male Catholics had to put up with back then, he says. This time, though,
it was more serious. English detectives were waiting to question him about three
fingerprints linked to IRA bombs.

During the trial, the fact that McNamee had been the only one of eight siblings
to go to university was turned against him: his degree was in physics - handy,
of course, for any bomb-maker. 'Graduate in Mass Murder', the headlines
screamed.

The waitress offers dessert but he declines and orders another black coffee. He
needs the energy, he says. Friends say he has trouble sleeping. 'I'll be better
after the judgment.' In prison he discovered English people. 'Ordinary, decent
criminals. Nice guys.' Bizarrely, in Parkhurst Prison he also bumped into
Desmond Ellis, a confessed bomb-maker thought to be the real Hyde Park bomber.
McNamee shrugs at the memory. 'He's a very nice fella.' Apart from a small but
growing core of supporters who believed in his innocence, the outside world
forgot about him. He killed time by learning to paint, reading novels and - a
highlight - mortifying Michael Howard, the then Home Secretary, by briefly
escaping from Whitemoor Prison, Cambridgeshire. 'Satisfying,' he says, 'very
satisfying.' The appeal, which boiled down to untangling the Crown's withholding
of evidence at his trial, sucked him into studying law and he graduated last
year from London University with a 2: 1. Walking from the Maze prison last
month, it was difficult for him to see any bright side. His parents were dead.
Time and events had made him and his fiancee different people.

Anyway, rebuilding a private life had to wait until after his appeal. Assuming
it went the right way, he would happily pose for photographs. Then his fellow
diners might realise the Hyde Park bomber was another victim of a flawed
judicial system.

Innocent Irishmen thumping the air on the steps of The Royal Courts of Justice
has become an iconic image, but McNamee, draining the last of his coffee, knew
the appeal judges could condemn him to a second lifetime of persecution.

Three days after our lunch he got his answer. The conviction was quashed, but,
in a move which enraged his supporters and astonished legal observers, the
judges added that this did not necessarily mean he was innocent, merely that the
conviction was unsafe.

McNamee, trembling but composed, faced the cameras and said he was vindicated.
If he returns to the restaurant, few if any people are likely to recognise him.
American and British warplanes have bombed him off the front pages.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              69 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 20, 1998, Sunday

SADDAM'S ANTHRAX PLOT IN BRITAIN;
 BUT BLAIR WARNS: DO IT AND WE'LL NUKE BAGHDAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 955 words


SADDAM Hussein has hatched an evil plot to unleash his doomsday weapon anthrax
on Britain in revenge for the air strikes against Iraq.

Intelligence chiefs have uncovered plans to smuggle in deadly germ warfare
spores hidden in duty-free perfume and booze bottles.

If unleashed, thousands of

people could be killed by the deadly spores.

But last night the vile despot was warned that any such germ warfare terrorist
action would be met with a nuclear attack on Baghdad.

Vast numbers of innocent civilians would die in agony if even a small amount of
anthrax was sprayed in a packed railway station or shopping centre.

Last night security was massively stepped up at major ports to counter Saddam's
feared terror plot against our towns and cities.

Police have also stepped up patrols at other vulnerable sites such as
reservoirs, power stations and transport links. And emergency planners have
ordered Government scientists to speed up work on a new range of vaccines to
safeguard the public.

The moves came as British Top Guns bombarded Baghdad for a fourth night in a
row.

A senior defence source told the Sunday People: "Our intelligence services have
had specific hard information for some time about a possible anthrax terrorist
attack by Saddam against both Britain and the United States.

"It first arose early this year when tensions began to rise between Saddam and
the West over his block on the UN weapons inspection teams.

"Our agents inside Iraq have confirmed that Saddam ordered the plot to be ready
if the allies ever relaunched military attacks on Iraq. Obviously, this has now
happened and so we are on the highest level of alert.

"But the Allies have made it very very clear to Saddam that if he unleashes
anthrax or other germ warfare weapons in our cities, we will retaliate in the
strongest possible way.

"The gravest option would be nuclear weapons on Baghdad.

"The possibility of a revenge attack on the streets of Britain should not be
underplayed.

"This is a real and potentially catastrophic scenario and we must not drop our
guard for a second.

"Saddam has no way of hitting back as he is forced to watch helplessly as the
RAF and the US Air Force knock out his military machine.

"That is why we have made it clear that we would have no qualms about taking
real, decisive action against Baghdad should this happen."

Anthrax kills within minutes. Victims drown as their lungs fill with body fluid
and they suffer massive internal bleedings in their vital organs.

Spies working behind enemy lines have learned that a consignment of lethal
chemicals and nerve gas may already be heading for Britain.

Saddam's top henchmen have spent months plotting the easiest routes and fixing
secret storage areas for enough anthrax to wipe out almost the entire population
of the UK.

The chemical cocktails are so powerful that a single teaspoonful is enough to
wipe out 100 million people.

Undercover agents believe Saddam will try to smuggle it in hidden in duty-free
perfume sprays, cigarette lighters, cosmetics and bottles of spirits.

They could easily be planted by a secret network of Arab fanatics living in
Britain.

Anti-terrorist experts fear he could release the deadly germs using timer
devices to hit different locations around the country.

This would allow him to hold Britain to ransom by threatening to set them off a
day at a time until the air attacks are stopped. That evil move would bring a
far-away war closer to home with waves of panic spreading across the nation.

The plot was first revealed by MI6 last March when an all-ports warning approved
by Premier Tony Blair was issued.

A defence source said: "The threat is very much a real one. We have to take is
seriously and be prepared for any terrorist action in Britain.  We have to be on
our guard."

Anti-terror cops are working flat out watching Saddam's network of hardline
sympathisers across the country. Cells of "sleepers" are operating under the
guise of students, engineers or even dissidents supposedly opposed to the
Baghdad regime.

They could be activated in an instant.

Scientists at the top secret Porton Down lab have briefed Ministers, police and
the emergency services.

The Wiltshire base, home to the Chemical and Biological Defence Agency, has been
working around the clock to counter the danger.

Some analysts there believe Saddam has already smuggled stocks of chemical and
biological compounds on to our soil. Porton Down director Paul Taylor said: "The
threat is real. it is not hype. We are working extremely long hours. Activity
has been considerably stepped up."

Saddam has a horrifying array of weapons at his disposal. He has acknowledged
producing 2,265 gallons of anthrax - enough to wipe out billions.

His scientists are known to have developed Agent 15 and VX gas which attack the
central nervous system.

He also has stocks of the poison Ricin, used in the umbrella tip which killed
the Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov in London in 1978. And the arsenal
includes 200 tons of Sarin - which the Aum cult released in the 1995 attack on
the Tokyo underground, killing 12.

Saddam has already shown his willingness to use chemical warfare against
civilians.

His armed forces deployed mustard and nerve gases in northern Iraq wiping out
4,000 Kurds.

Security expert and author Chris Dobson said: "I do not want to frighten people
but Saddam poses a very real threat to the British mainland.

"He can call on a network of sympathisers who are not only prepared to attack
British military targets but also the civilian population.

"In their eyes, we are now just as much a target as America."

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              70 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           December 20, 1998, Sunday

OPERATION DESERT FOX: SADDAM PLOT TO SPRAY US WITH ANTHRAX

BYLINE: By Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 737 words


SADDAM Hussein has hatched an evil plot to unleash his doomsday weapon anthrax
on London in revenge for the air strikes against Iraq.

Intelligence chiefs have uncovered plans to smuggle in deadly germ warfare
spores hidden in duty-free perfume and booze bottles.

If unleashed, thousands of people could be killed by the deadly spores.

But last night the vile despot was warned that any such germ warfare terrorist
action would be met with a nuclear attack on Baghdad.

Vast numbers of innocent civilians would die in agony if even a small amount of
anthrax was sprayed in a railway station or shopping centre.

Last night security was massively stepped up at major ports to counter Saddam's
feared terror plot. Police have also stepped up patrols at other vulnerable
sites such as reservoirs, power stations and transport links.  And emergency
planners have ordered Government scientists to speed up work on a new range of
vaccines to safeguard the public.

A senior defence source told the Sunday People: "Our intelligence services have
had specific hard information for some time about a possible anthrax terrorist
attack by Saddam against both Britain and the United States.

"It first arose early this year when tensions began to rise between Saddam and
the West over his block on the UN weapons inspection teams.  Our agents inside
Iraq have confirmed that Saddam ordered the plot to be ready if the allies
relaunched military attacks on Iraq.

"Obviously, this has now happened and so we are on the highest level of alert.

"But the Allies have made it very clear to Saddam that if he unleashes anthrax
or other germ weapons in our cities, we will retaliate in the strongest possible
way.

"The gravest option would be nuclear weapons on Baghdad.

"The possibility of a revenge attack on the streets of Britain should not be
underplayed. This is a real and potentially catastrophic scenario.

"Saddam was forced to watch helplessly as the RAF and the US Air Force knocked
out his military machine.

"That is why we have made it clear that we would have no qualms about taking
real, decisive action against Baghdad should this happen." Anthrax kills within
minutes. Victims drown as their lungs fill with body fluid and they suffer
massive internal bleeding.

Spies working behind enemy lines have learned that a consignment of lethal
chemicals and nerve gas may already be heading for Britain.

Saddam's top henchmen have spent months plotting the easiest routes and fixing
secret storage areas for enough anthrax to wipe out almost the entire population
of the UK.

The chemical cocktails are so powerful that a single teaspoonful is enough to
wipe out 100 million people.

Undercover agents believe Saddam will try to smuggle it in hidden in duty-free
perfume sprays, cigarette lighters, cosmetics and bottles of spirits.

They could easily be planted by a secret network of Arab fanatics living in
Britain. Anti-terrorist experts fear he could release the germs using timer
devices to hit different locations.

The plot was first revealed by MI6 last March when an all-ports warning approved
by Premier Tony Blair was issued.

Anti-terror cops are working flat out watching Saddam's network of hardline
sympathisers across the country. Cells of "sleepers" are operating under the
guise of students, engineers or even dissidents.

They could be activated in an instant.

Scientists at the top secret Porton Down lab have briefed Ministers, police and
the emergency services.

The Wiltshire base, home to the Chemical and Biological Defence Agency, has been
working around the clock to counter the danger.

Some analysts there believe Saddam has already smuggled stocks of chemical and
biological compounds on to our soil.

Porton Down director Paul Taylor said: "The threat is real. We are working
extremely long hours. Activity has been considerably stepped up."

Saddam has a horrifying array of weapons at his disposal. He has acknowledged
producing 2,265 gallons of anthrax - enough to wipe out billions.

His scientists have developed Agent 15 and VX gas which attack the central
nervous system. He also has stocks of Ricin, used in the umbrella tip which
killed the Bulgarian dissident Georgi Markov in London in 1978.

And he has 200 tons of Sarin - which the Aum cult released in the 1995 attack on
the Tokyo underground, killing 12.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR PLOT: Saddam

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              71 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1998

Caged, but for how long?;
GOALS: The US and Britain claimed success, but questions remain about how to
'contain' Saddam and how much he is damaged, writes Ian Black

BYLINE: Ian Black

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 983 words


AS Britain and America claimed success for the military goals of Operation
Desert Fox yesterday and set out a new strategy of "containment" for Iraq, many
tough questions remained unanswered.

The first is how will Saddam Hussein, still alive and as vocal as ever, be
contained? There are echoes here of earlier attempts at containment - it has,
after all, been the declared goal of the US and Britain since the Gulf war ended
inconclusively in March 1991 with the liberation of Kuwait but with the Iraqi
dictator, shaken by bloody rebellions of Kurds and Shi'ites, still in power.

The key differences now are that the inspectors of the United Nations Special
Commission (Unscom) - condemned as spies by Baghdad - are highly unlikely to go
back; and that international determination to keep Saddam "in his cage" is
looking shakier than ever before.

New means will have to be found to monitor what remains of Iraq's weapons of
mass destruction, though aerial and satellite surveillance is unlikely to be
more effective than an on-the-ground hunt for incriminating procurement
documents and easily concealed flasks of germ warfare agents.

How extensively Saddam's regime and capabilities have been damaged is another
important question: even extensive damage could leave the Iraqi leader able
within months - and perhaps weeks - of again threatening his neighbours with
chemical and biological weapons.

And despite intensive targeting of his elite security units and unconfirmed
reports of summary executions of mutinous officers, it does not automatically
translate into a significant weakening of what Tony Blair called this "highly
centralised and repressive regime".

The Anglo-American camp will now have to seek support for maintaining the UN
sanctions imposed in 1990. Russia and France, furious at not being consulted
about Desert Fox and opposed to any military action, have long been working to
ease those sanctions and at the very least to show Baghdad "some light at the
end of the tunnel". It will clearly not be easy to persuade them to sign up to
tighter enforcement.

Boris Yeltsin, the Russian president, gave a clear sign of his mood yesterday
when he insisted it was "absolutely clear that the use of force has only
complicated solving the Iraq problem."

And in Paris, Jacques Chirac called for a review of the eight-year oil embargo,
which has starved and impoverished millions of ordinary Iraqis while a brutal
regime has creamed off UN-approved sales to live in luxury.

Attitudes like these will take some overcoming, as Michael Howard, the shadow
foreign secretary, argued yesterday in responding to Mr Blair's presentation.

"He called for a more intensive enforcement of sanctions but how is that any
easier today than it was a week ago?" Mr Howard asked. "He spoke of a new
diplomatic consensus, but the absence of that consensus over the last few days
does not bode well for the future."

Faced with this reality, diplomatic activity will be intense in the coming days.
Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, started with a call to Madeleine Albright,
his American counterpart - reeling from the Clinton impeachment drama but also
claiming success in keeping Saddam "in his box". More strikingly, Mr Cook spoke
too to Kamal Kharrazi, Iran's foreign minister and chairman of the Organisation
of the Islamic Conference.

Iran has spoken out forcefully against unilateral American-British action, but
its hostility to Iraq (despite covert cooperation in sanctions-busting) and
regional influence could be useful in trying to unite Muslim and Arab states
behind containment.

Securing agreement for more sales of oil to buy humanitarian supplies and
relieve the suffering of the Iraqi people will be a key part of this diplomatic
campaign.

After angry demonstrations from Morocco to Syria and charges of double standards
in the light of renewed stalemate in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process,
threats of anti-western terrorist attacks will have to be taken seriously.

US and British diplomats say that whatever their public stance, Arab Gulf states
privately want a tough policy towards Baghdad. But it seems unlikely that their
support will be any more forthcoming if the US and Britain again insist that UN
resolutions allow them to attack without warning.

Russia's call for a return to the security council suggests a long haul to
achieve consensus even among the veto-wielding Big Five after their failure to
consult last week following the damning report on Iraqi obstruction by Unscom
chief Richard Butler.

Yesterday's statements in Washington and London emphasised support for the Iraqi
opposition, but in neither capital was there the explicit backing for a
long-term, comprehensive strategy of regime destabilisation that exile groups
are demanding.

Conscripts in the Iraqi army will have noticed that they were not bombed while
Republican Guard units were. But there is no sign that the US and Britain are
ready to pay the diplomatic and military price of enforcing a "no-drive" zone
that would restrict Iraqi armour to the Baghdad area - and encourage
insurrection elsewhere.

"There will be a deepening problem in the Arab world if our campaign does not
end in a significantly chastened and punished regime in Baghdad," warned Robert
Satloff, of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

"We have no doctrine, no ground rules," said security expert Anthony Cordesman.
"We have not set out what we're doing beyond degrade, we haven't defined what
success is. One of our problems is that we're so self-obsessed that we have not
dealt with the rest of the world."

Desert Fox is over, but the story of containing Iraq continues. Whatever else
happens in the coming months, it is a fair bet that Saturday night will not be
the last time air raid sirens are heard wailing in the streets of Baghdad.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1998

US and Britain brace for terrorist reprisals;
SECURITY: Americans at home and abroad are on high alert, writes Mark Tran in
New York

BYLINE: Mark Tran

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


NOW that the air strikes have been called off, the focus for British and US
intelligence officers will switch to a new target: how to prevent Iraq and its
friends from taking retaliatory terrorist action.

The Australian government yesterday confirmed that one of its citizens, the
chief United Nations weapons inspector Richard Butler, had received death
threats after issuing the report that prompted the bombing of Iraq.

Mr Butler arrived at the UN in New York last week with a police escort.  The
security detail was one of several precautionary measures as the US braces
itself for attacks from Muslim extremists.

Last week it closed 38 embassies in Africa for at least two days against
possible reprisals. The secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, said the
administration took this highly unusual step on Thursday and Friday "because we
are concerned about general threats and the heightened situation".

The state department yesterday said no decision had been taken about their
reopening this week.

"A number of African posts have received threats in recent weeks and our caution
is fully justified," a state department official said.

The embassies were closed, in part, to avoid a repetition of the US embassy
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania in August that killed more than 220 people,
including 12 Americans.

After the attacks, President Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes at a
chemicals factory in Sudan and camps in Afghanistan run by the Saudi Osama bin
Laden, the FBI's most wanted international terrorist.

Even before the bombing of Iraq, US intelligence officials warned they had
evidence that Bin Laden might be planning an attack on Washington or New York in
retaliation for the US raid on his Afghan camp.

In a coup for the US, a suspected top aide of Bin Laden was yesterday turned
over to US officials in Germany for extradition. Mamdouh Mahmud Salim was taken
to Munich airport and placed on a flight to the US, a Bavarian justice ministry
spokesman, Gerhard Zierl, said.

The US is concerned not only about terrorist attacks but more generalised anger
in the Arab world that may engulf Americans. The state department has issued a
worldwide warning to Americans to take precautions abroad.

In Morocco yesterday tens of thousands of demonstrators protested in the capital
Rabat against the strikes on Iraq. Shouting "America, enemy of the people", they
burned US and British flags.

In New York hundreds of extra police, and security guards blanketed airports,
bus and train stations, federal buildings and tourist areas.

The police commissioner, Howard Safir, said the city was on high alert. "We
always assume the worst possible case and take the precautions necessary," he
said.


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1998

Iraq: After the missiles; GOALS: Caged, but for how long?;
 Questions remain about how to 'contain' Saddam and whether the US and Britain
can persuade others to keep UN sanctions, writes Ian Black

BYLINE: IAN BLACK

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 986 words


AS BRITAIN and the United States claimed success for the military goals of
Operation Desert Fox yesterday and set out a new strategy of "containment" for
Iraq, many tough questions remained unanswered.

The first is how will Saddam Hussein, still alive and as vocal as ever, be
contained? There are echoes here of earlier attempts at containment - it has,
after all, been the declared goal of the US and Britain since the Gulf war ended
inconclusively in March 1991 with the liberation of Kuwait but with the Iraqi
dictator, shaken by bloody rebellions of Kurds and Shi'ites, still in power.

The key differences now are that the inspectors of the United Nations Special
Commission (Unscom) - condemned as spies by Baghdad - are highly unlikely to go
back; and that international determination to keep Saddam "in his cage" is
looking shakier than ever before.

New means will have to be found to monitor what remains of Iraq's weapons of
mass destruction, though aerial and satellite surveillance is unlikely to be
more effective than an on-the-ground hunt for incriminating procurement
documents and easily concealed flasks of germ warfare agents.

How extensively Saddam's regime and capabilities have been damaged is another
important question: even extensive damage could leave the Iraqi leader able
within months - and perhaps weeks - of again threatening his neighbours with
chemical and biological weapons.

And despite intensive targeting of his elite security units and unconfirmed
reports of summary executions of mutinous officers, it does not automatically
translate into a significant weakening of what Tony Blair called this "highly
centralised and repressive regime".

The Anglo-American camp will now have to seek support for maintaining the UN
sanctions imposed in 1990. Russia and France, furious at not being consulted
about Desert Fox and opposed to any military action, have long been working to
ease those sanctions and at the very least to show Baghdad "some light at the
end of the tunnel". It will clearly not be easy to persuade them to sign up to
tighter enforcement.

Boris Yeltsin, the Russian president, gave a clear sign of his mood yesterday
when he insisted it was "absolutely clear that the use of force has only
complicated solving the Iraq problem".

And in Paris, Jacques Chirac called for a review of the eight-year oil embargo,
which has starved and impoverished millions of ordinary Iraqis while a brutal
regime has creamed off UN-approved sales to live in luxury.

Attitudes such as these will take some overcoming, as Michael Howard, the shadow
foreign secretary, argued yesterday in responding to Mr Blair's presentation.

"He called for a more intensive enforcement of sanctions but how is that any
easier today than it was a week ago?" Mr Howard asked. "He spoke of a new
diplomatic consensus, but the absence of that consensus over the last few days
does not bode well for the future."

Faced with this reality, diplomatic activity will be intense in the coming days.
Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, started with a call to Madeleine Albright,
the US secretary of state - reeling from the Clinton impeachment drama but also
claiming success in keeping Saddam "in his box". More strikingly, Mr Cook spoke
to Kamal Kharrazi, Iran's foreign minister and chairman of the Organisation of
the Islamic Conference.

Iran has spoken out forcefully against unilateral US-British action, but its
hostility to Iraq (despite covert co-operation in sanctions-busting) and
regional influence could be useful in trying to unite Muslim and Arab states
behind containment.

Securing agreement for more sales of oil to buy humanitarian supplies and
relieve the suffering of the Iraqi people will be a key part of this diplomatic
campaign.

After angry demonstrations from Morocco to Syria and charges of double standards
in the light of renewed deadlock in the Israeli-Palestinian peace process,
threats of anti-Western terrorist attacks will have to be taken seriously.

US and British diplomats say that whatever their public stance, Arab Gulf states
privately want a tough policy towards Baghdad. But it seems unlikely that their
support will be any more forthcoming if the US and Britain again insist that UN
resolutions allow them to attack without warning.

Russia's call for a return to the UN Security Council suggests a long haul to
achieve consensus even among the veto-wielding Big Five after their failure to
consult last week following the damning report on Iraqi obstruction by the
Unscom chief, Richard Butler.

Yesterday's statements in Washington and London emphasised support for the Iraqi
opposition, but in neither capital was there the explicit backing for a
long-term, comprehensive strategy of regime destabilisation that exile groups
are demanding.

Conscripts in the Iraqi army will have noticed that they were not bombed while
Republican Guard units were. But there is no sign that the US and Britain are
ready to pay the diplomatic and military price of enforcing a "no -drive" zone
that would restrict Iraqi armour to the Baghdad area - and encourage
insurrection elsewhere.

"There will be a deepening problem in the Arab world if our campaign does not
end in a significantly chastened and punished regime in Baghdad," warned Robert
Satloff, of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy.

"We have no doctrine, no ground rules," said security expert Anthony Cordesman.
"We have not set out what we're doing beyond degrade, we haven't defined what
success is. One of our problems is that we're so self-obsessed that we have not
dealt with the rest of the world."

Desert Fox is over, but the story of containing Iraq continues. Whatever else
happens in the coming months, it is a fair bet that Saturday night will not be
the last time air-raid sirens are heard wailing in the streets of Baghdad.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 21, 1998

Iraq: After the missiles; SECURITY, US and Britain brace for terrorist
reprisals;
 Americans at home and abroad are on high alert, writes Mark Tran in New York

BYLINE: MARK TRAN

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 460 words


NOW that the air strikes have been called off, the focus for British and US
intelligence officers will switch to a new target: how to prevent Iraq and its
friends from taking retaliatory terrorist action.

The Australian government yesterday confirmed that one of its citizens, the
chief United Nations weapons inspector Richard Butler, had received death
threats after issuing the report that prompted the bombing of Iraq.

Mr Butler arrived at the UN in New York last week with a police escort.  The
security detail was one of several precautionary measures as the US braces
itself for attacks from Muslim extremists.

Last week it closed 38 embassies in Africa for at least two days against
possible reprisals. The secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, said the
administration took this highly unusual step on Thursday and Friday "because we
are concerned about general threats and the heightened situation".

The state department yesterday said no decision had been taken about their
reopening this week.

"A number of African posts have received threats in recent weeks and our caution
is fully justified," a state department official said.

The embassies were closed, in part, to avoid a repetition of the US embassy
bombings in Kenya and Tanzania in August that killed more than 220 people,
including 12 Americans.

After the attacks, President Clinton ordered cruise missile strikes at a
chemicals factory in Sudan and camps in Afghanistan run by the Saudi Osama bin
Laden, the FBI's most wanted international terrorist.

Even before the bombing of Iraq, US intelligence officials warned they had
evidence that Bin Laden might be planning an attack on Washington or New York in
retaliation for the US raid on his Afghan camp.

In a coup for the US, a suspected top aide of Bin Laden was yesterday turned
over to US officials in Germany for extradition. Mamdouh Mahmud Salim was taken
to Munich airport and placed on a flight to the US, a Bavarian justice ministry
spokesman, Gerhard Zierl, said.

The US is concerned not only about terrorist attacks but more generalised anger
in the Arab world that may engulf Americans. The state department has issued a
worldwide warning to Americans to take precautions abroad.

In Morocco yesterday tens of thousands of demonstrators protested in the capital
Rabat against the strikes on Iraq. Shouting "America, enemy of the people", they
burned US and British flags.

In New York hundreds of extra police, and security guards blanketed airports,
bus and train stations, federal buildings and tourist areas.

The police commissioner, Howard Safir, said the city was on high alert. "We
always assume the worst possible case and take the precautions necessary," he
said.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1998 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 21, 1998, Monday

Lockerbie: 10 years on and families pray for the truth

BYLINE: By Stephen Goodwin

SECTION: NEWS; Page 10

LENGTH: 847 words


AN EMOTIONAL warning to the British and American governments not to jeopardise a
trial of the two Libyans suspected of the Lockerbie bombing was delivered
yesterday, on the eve of the tenth anniversary of the Pan Am 103 mass murder.

Bert Ammerman, a 52-year-old high school principal from New Jersey, stood
outside a church in the Borders town where he spent nine days waiting to
identify his dead brother, and expressed the frustration of the victims'
families in their search for the truth. "I couldn't care less if these guys are
found guilty or not. They are only what we Americans would call 'guppies' -
small pawns," Mr Ammerman said after attending the morning mass at Holy Trinity
Catholic Church.

"A trial will release the evidence and that's the most important thing.  If you
don't have a trial you are never going to find the truth. And if a trial doesn't
happen, that's a scandalous issue on the heads of the British and American
governments."

There has long been suspicion among victims' relatives that it has suited
security services not to face the spotlight of a trial.

Mr Ammerman contrasted the readiness of the US to wage war in the Gulf with its
tardiness over an atrocity in which 189 Americans died.

Some 50 relatives and friends of American victims are expected to be in
Lockerbie today.

At 7.03pm, during a memorial service, there will be a minute's silence, marking
the moment 10 years ago when a terrorist bomb exploded in the aircraft at 31,000
feet, killing all 259 people on board and 11 on the ground in an inferno as the
fuel-laden wing section ploughed into their homes.

There will be four simultaneous services - in Lockerbie, attended by Prince
Philip; in Westminster Abbey, attended by the Tony Blair; at Arlington National
Cemetery, Virginia, attended by President Bill Clinton; and at Syracuse in New
York State, which lost 35 university students.

Under a clear blue sky on the last Sunday before Christmas, Lockerbie did not
look like a town overshadowed by tragedy. A cluster of about 20 reporters and
photographers opposite Holy Trinity church attracted a few curious glances.

But Lockerbie is tired of the media and the grim notoriety the disaster has
brought it.

After identifying his brother, Mr Ammerman hoped never to come back to
Lockerbie. "I wanted always to remember the carnage, the smell of gasoline, the
debris and the bodies."

But as a leading representative of the American victims' families, he has made a
succession of visits in the campaign for answers to the tragedy.

Along the way, he has made friends and seen the town's physical scars heal over.
Sherwood Crescent, where Lockerbie's victims were incinerated in their homes,
has been rebuilt and looks no different to any other quiet, residential street.

His voice choking, Mr Ammerman told the congregation at Holy Trinity church of
the Christmas Eve a decade ago when he sat in the same pew, "trying to figure
out what in God's name was happening".

His brother Tommy, who worked for an Arab-owned shipping line, had been on Pan
Am flight 103.

His body was found later on the lonely hillside at Tundergarth, four miles from
the town where the aircraft's nose cone fell. Now Mr Ammerman feels able to
bring his daughters Christine, 21, and Megan, 19, to Scotland to see the town's
memorials to the dead.

Mr Ammerman later began an emotional pilgrimage around Lockerbie, starting at
Dryfesdale cemetery's garden of remembrance. There he left a bouquet at the
memorial inscribed with the names of the victims, and ran his fingers over his
brother's name as he said a few words in private.

The card on the bouquet read: "Tommy, you did not die in vain".

Mr Ammerman said another card read: "In loving memory from a loving brother".

Afterwards he said: "In 10 years I have said a lot of things, but today in
church and here it is for me personally the most personal and emotional day for
10 years."

He said that the memorial was a "simple but powerful" one for the 270 victims.

Revealing that he had spoken a few words to his dead brother, Mr Ammerman said:
"I said, 'You didn't die in vain, we have done the best we can.  We're not
finished yet but we are near a trial'."

Mr Ammerman hopes that his next trip will be to the Netherlands where, if the
Libyan leader MuammarGaddafi hands them over, the two suspects will stand trial
under Scottish law. Agreement to a trial in a third country had "boxed the
colonel in", according to Mr Ammerman.

He is anxious that the British and American governments do nothing to give Libya
a pretext not to hand over the suspects. Western insistence on the pair serving
any sentence in a Scottish jail, if convicted, is one big area of concern. The
bombardment of Baghdad could also damage prospects for a trial.

Mr Ammerman said he could not quarrel with the action taken by the US and
Britain over Iraq, but he admitted "selfishly" he thought it was a setback and
was likely to delay any hand-over and arrest of the suspects.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              76 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 21, 1998, Monday

DEAR JO: READERS LETTERS'

BYLINE: Jo Dipple

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 973 words


Bombing won't tame Saddam

HOW can we possibly justify the bombing of Iraq a week before Christmas?

I am saddened and dismayed by Tony Blair's support of the US in this action.

Here we have Clinton, leader of the free world and discredited in his own
country, a man with the morals of a promiscuous teenager who will do anything to
save his own skin.

Tony Blair is pandering to his every whim.

It is not Saddam Hussein who will suffer. It is the poor, the children and the
aged in Iraq.

Bombing will not solve anything. It will merely strengthen Saddam's resolve.

John Bache Wigan, Gtr Manchester

I AM no warmonger and I did not entirely agree with the Falklands conflict. But
I could not agree more about the action taken against Iraq. Saddam and numerous
other dictators are in the same league as terrorists.

Before we can have world peace we must first rid the planet of its tyrants.

R Foulser, Hornchurch, Essex

JUST what the hell are our leaders doing with their bombs and missiles?

Nobody can convince ordinary people that innocent civilians will not be killed
or maimed. Nor should we, as fellow human beings, condone the attitudes of the
Yanks and our own leaders.

The Iraqi people were finding life hard enough as it was. Now they are going to
suffer more.

B Bithell, Burnley, Lancs

SO Mad Sad's at it again - strutting around, doing as he likes. There are people
like Tony Benn who say we should stop the bombing.

But does Benn think all will be well if we do?

What will the do-gooders think when Saddam wipes out millions of lives with his
chemical weapons?

It will be too late then. I, for one, hope that this time good will triumph over
evil.

J Dix, Cheltenham, Glos

IN this season of peace and goodwill we have the American government attacking
Iraq, endangering the world's balance of power.

And as far as Britain's involvement goes it seems we are hanging onto America's
coat tails, not realising that Clinton is just covering up the impeachment
procedures.

The Iraqi attack will not lead to a solution. But is may lead to a terrorist
attack on Britain.

Leslie Edmondson, Penrith, Cumbria

I WAS shocked to read the story of how sisters Charlene, aged 16 and Miranda,
14, became pregnant despite their mother putting them on the pill. But the fact
that their mother put them on the pill this young makes me think she isn't much
of a role model for her girls.

G Perring, Catford, South London

I READ about the two young girls who have been made pregnant and I was amazed.
It seems Father Christmas has called early for both of them.

R Holliday, Workington, Cumbria

MY XMAS BILL HELL

pounds 25 Letter of the Day

I HAVE just had a gas bill put through my door and I'm appalled they are sent
out so near Christmas.

There must be thousands of low-income families with two or three children who
have struggled to buy presents, food and whatever else is needed at this time of
year.

Having a gas bill can only add to their stress and worries and could possibly
ruin Christmas.Why couldn't British Gas wait until after Christmas to deliver
these bills? Is it the season of goodwill or the season of greed, profit and
bonuses for the chairman and the board?

John James

Nantyglo, Gwent

I spy a plot..

JOHN Bull asks why the CIA, before spying on Diana, couldn't find the killers of
Monroe or the Kennedys. They will not investigate because the CIA committed
these murders.

A Clough, Shipley, Yorks

I'm in dark over shortest day

THIS time last year I mentioned to a friend that it would soon be the shortest
day of the year.

He replied: "Well how short is it?"

Dave Whelligan Birkenhead, Merseyside

WHO'S idea was it to have the shortest day in the run up to Christmas?  This is
a time of year when we all have extra trouble fitting everything into the day.

A Bilton, Lincoln

I WAS disgusted to hear TV licences are to increase to more than pounds 100 next
year. Yet the BBC throws away hundreds of thousands a year on big name stars who
only appear in one or two shows when a lot of us are struggling to get by.

The programmes don't get any better and the entertainment planned for Christmas
is awful.

M Beedle

Normanton, West Yorks

HOW have doctors have arrived at the decision to give out 28 pills for a month's
prescription?

There is only one month with 28 days. Are we being done?

W McDonald Bridgnorth, Shropshire

AS HEAD of the Christian church how can the Queen treat anyone in the manner
which she has treated poor Fergie? Love and forgiveness are what the church is
supposed to be about.

B Heath, Tamworth, Staffs

I had that Jesus in my taxi..

Kids' Talk

MY two daughters - Cherri, aged five, and Coral, aged nine - decided to act out
the nativity play for their Dad and me.

When the story started to dry up I said: "What about Joseph and Mary going to
Bethlehem to pay their taxes?"

Cherri piped up: "Oh Mum! They didn't have taxis. They weren't invented then."

Jan Andrews

London

I TOOK my two nephews to a fete and they were very excited when I told them
they'd see morris dancers.

When they saw the dancers they looked frantically around and eventually said:
"Where's Maurice?"

I'd forgotten that their neighbour's dog was called Maurice.

Fulton McDonald Wrea Green, Lancs

MY husband went to pick up our six-year-old granddaughter. She was with a friend
and said: "This is my granddad."

"I know", said the friend. "I could tell because he's got the same colour hair
as my granddad."

K Munday

Boreham Wood, Herts

MY daughter came to visit with my grandson. I was watching the wind blow
fiercely and commented: "There's a gale getting up". He said: "Why? Is she in
bed?"

M Bransby

Wakefield, West Yorks

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DANGER: Saddam:; EXPECTING: Pregnant teenagers Charlene, right, and
Miranda

                            Copyright 1998 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 21, 1998, Monday

A decade in the darkness

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 833 words


Magnus Linklater on the legacy of Lockerbie

Even I feel a chill on this, the tenth anniversary of the Lockerbie disaster. So
what about those who were there? I have friends and former colleagues who still
wrestle with their demons - the images of stripped bodies on the hills as dawn
rose, the blank faces of policemen as they searched for remains, the morgue in
the town hall. That evening I was in the Scottish Borders attending a Christmas
dinner. A call came through from my office at The Scotsman, and I can still
remember that lurch of the stomach as I heard the news: an American airliner had
crashed "somewhere near Lockerbie". Should I go there, or return to take charge
of the newspaper I then edited? Cowardice or common sense u I am still not sure
which - sent me back to Edinburgh, where I supervised edition after edition of
terrible pictures and harrowing detail.

Ten years on, the worst legacy of that night still haunts us. It is, that
terrorism works; that international politics takes precedence over the search
for justice; that, for all the United Nations' fine-sounding declarations, we
are still incapable of dealing with tyranny. Can we honestly say that four days
of bombing Iraq have stopped Saddam Hussein in his tracks? If anything, the
reverse may be true.

Lord Healey's sobering assessment yesterday - that it had weakened Britain's
influence in Europe and the Middle East without achieving its principal
objective of undermining Saddam - rang true.

We cannot even prevent genocide, something the UN is specifically enjoined to
do. As Panorama reported last Monday, confirming earlier investigations by the
journalist Linda Melvern, evidence that the terrible slaughter in Rwanda in 1994
was deliberate genocide rather than an outbreak of tribal warfare was ignored or
suppressed. Only now are we beginning to learn that delegates to the Security
Council preferred not to use the term genocide at all, and concentrated instead
on how to get their own troops out. The desperate pleas of those facing certain
death as soon as the West's back was turned were ignored. I predict that when Ms
Melvern's book on these matters is published next year it will provoke an
international scandal.

Now, ten years after Lockerbie, we are still attempting to identify the
perpetrators of that outrage, the worst single act of terrorism since the war.
Or rather, we have decided instead to find a scapegoat. The two Libyan suspects
who are being sought to stand trial in The Netherlands are only bit-players,
small cogs in a far larger terrorist machine. As the intelligence services of
Britain, the United States, and probably Israel, know full well, full
responsibility for the bombing of Pan Am Flight 103 lies elsewhere. Libya was
not even the prime mover. If it had been, Colonel Gaddafi would not now be
contemplating the risk of allowing two suspects out of his country.

There was a time, in the year or so after the explosion, when the West was hot
on the trail of the real perpetrators. The Popular Front for the Liberation of
Palestine General Command, based in Syria, was the prime suspect, and the
evidence against it was compelling. A defecting Iraqi intelligence officer
revealed that the original decision to attack an American plane was made in
Tehran, and that it was to be an act of revenge for the shooting down of an
Iranian Airbus earlier in 1988.

The names of the planners were in the hands of the investigating team who also
learnt that some weeks before the bombing, the German police had arrested 17
members of the PFLP and had found evidence of a prototype cassette bomb. For
reasons that are still not clear, the Germans released their suspects, among
whom, almost certainly, was the manufacturer of the Pan Am bomb.

That line of inquiry conveniently petered out. Our attention was diverted to
Libya. That, we were told, was where the hard evidence pointed, and that was
where Western pressure would be applied. At least it offered a chance of
exploring the evidence - and Libya, as an international pariah, was, of course,
a far easier target. Syria and Iran, on the other hand, were states to be
courted. America needed Syria's support in building a Middle East peace; Iran
was being encouraged to abandon its hardline stance and become an ally. This was
not a time to cause unnecessary antagonism.

So when and if we hear that Libya has agreed to surrender its suspects, do not
conclude that the right men have been brought to justice - only that the easiest
option has been taken. The Austrian satirist Karl Kraus used to perform a sketch
which involved him looking for a lost key in a small pool of light. A passer-by
offers to help, and, finding nothing, asks if that, indeed, is where the key was
lost. "Not at all," says Kraus, "I lost it over there," and he points to the
dark. "So why are you looking here?" asks the passer-by. "Because," Kraus
answers, "this is where the light is." comment@the-times.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1998 Times Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 22, 1998, Tuesday

LEADERS IN LOCKERBIE JUSTICE VOW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 238 words


BRITAIN and the United States last night vowed to bring to justice those
responsible for the Lockerbie bombing as the world paid tribute to the 270
victims.

The pledge, delivered in similar terms by each, came from Prime Minister Tony
Blair and President Bill Clinton, in messages read out at a 10th anniversary
service in the town.

The two leaders' messages came as Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi told Dutch
television he wanted the men accused of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an
international court.

Arrangements have been made for the trial to take place under Scottish law at a
Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands.

But the Libyan leader said: "An international court is the solution, with judges
from America, Libya, England and other countries."

In Lockerbie last night, Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary
Donald Dewar, recalled "a calamity made and perpetrated by men" which had
imprinted itself on the public mind.

And he declared: "Today, as we remember those who died and those who mourn, we
renew our resolve to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done."

The US president's message, read out by the American consul general for
Scotland, Cathy Hurst, likewise told those gathered in Lockerbie: "This cowardly
act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the United States and Great
Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              79 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 22, 1998, Tuesday

JUSTICE PLEDGE FOR LOCKERBIE VICTIMS

BYLINE: By Joe Quinn

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 507 words


Britain and the United States last night vowed to bring to justice those
responsible for the Lockerbie bombing as the world paid tribute to the 270
victims.

The pledge, delivered in similar terms by each, came from Prime Minister Tony
Blair and President Clinton, in messages read out at a tenth anniversary service
in the town.

The two leaders' messages came as Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi said he wanted
the men accused of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an international court.

Arrangements have been made for the trial to take place under Scottish law at a
Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands.

But the Libyan leader said: "An international court is the solution, with judges
from America, Libya, England and other countries."

In Lockerbie last night, Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary Mr
Donald Dewar, recalled "a calamity made and perpetrated by men" which had
imprinted itself on the public mind.

And he declared: "As we remember those who died and those who mourn, we renew
our resolve to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done."

President Clinton's message, read out by the American consul general for
Scotland, Ms Cathy Hurst, likewise told those gathered in sombre remembrance in
Lockerbie: "This cowardly act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the
United States andGrea t Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere."

President Clinton paid tribute to relatives and Lockerbie townsfolk who turned
sorrow into "a source of strength for all who stand against terror."

And he declared: "We mark this milestone at the time of the winter solstice,
when the sun begins to reclaim the day.

"It is a fitting moment to note your extraordinary determination to bring light
forth from this tragedy."

A message from the Queen read: "Our thoughts and prayers are with the families
and friends of those 270 people, from so many countries, whose lives were
tragically taken in the Lockerbie bombing 10 years ago. Time cannot erase their
memory."

This was a theme echoed across two continents on the tenth anniversary of the
outrage which claimed 270 lives when a terrorist radio-cassette bomb brought
down Pan Am Flight 103 over the quiet Scottish town.

In separate events, British relatives gathered for a service in Westminster,
some American families gathered at Arlington national cemetery in Washington,
and yet more gathered at Syracuse University in the US, which lost more than 30
home-going students in the bombing.

All these events were timed to coincide with 7pm in Lockerbie, when the Boeing
747 was about to be blown out of the skies six miles above the rolling Scottish
border hills.

The Lockerbie service was deliberately low-key, to mark an event that many
locals hope will draw a final line under the tragedy.

The low key nature of the anniversary was evident at the sole official event in
Lockerbie, the laying of a wreath in the town's cemetery, by the Duke of
Edinburgh under cold and leaden skies.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1998 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              80 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 22, 1998

REMEMBERED THE PAIN AND THE PRIDE

BYLINE: Hamish Macdonell

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 924 words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Gaddafi dashed hopes of quick trial for the two suspects
of the Lockerbie bombing last night as the world paid tribute to the 270
victims.

Yet again altering Libya's position in the long-running wrangle over the two
suspects, Colonel Gaddafi declared that any trial would have to be conducted by
an international court, not by Scottish judges.

The Libyan Leader's unexpected intervention came as Bill Clinton and Tony Blair
vowed to bring to justice those responsible for the Lockerbie bombing.

Their messages were read out at sombre and emotional tenth anniversary service
in the town as friends and families of the victims all over the world remembered
those killed Scotland's worst terrorist outrage.

The Libyan Leader's intervention appeared to destroy the apparent consensus that
had surfaced between Libya and the Anglo-American governments.

British and American diplomats agreed to move any trial to the Hague, providing
it was conducted under Scottish law and by Scottish judges.

Libya had appeared to go along with the initiative and raised hopes that a trial
could start early in 1999.

But Colonel Gaddafi backtracked in an interview on Dutch television when he
insisted on an international panel of judges: 'An international court is the
solution, with judges from America, Libya, England and other countries,' he
said.

The Prime Minister insisted last night that Britain and the U.S.

had gone 'as far as we should or could go' in reaching agreement with Libya over
the trial of the suspects.

He did not say how long he would wait for a deal, but did not want 'protracted
negotiations'.

And the the U.S. warned Libya that its patience was running out and it would
seek further sanctions against Tripoli in February unless the two suspects were
handed over for trial.

'The world community cannot wait forever for the Libyan authorities to come to a
conclusion,' Deputy U.S. Ambassador Peter Burleigh said.

In separate events yesterday, people gathered for services in Lockerbie,
Westminster Abbey, Arlington National Cemetery in Washington and Syracuse
University in the U.S., which lost 35 returning students in the bombing.

All the events were timed to coincide with the moment the 747 was blown out of
the skies six miles above the rolling border hills.

The Lockerbie service was deliberately low-key, in accordance with locals'
wishes. Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary Donald Dewar,
declared: 'Today, as we remember those who died and those who mourn, we renew
our resolve to establish the truth and ensure that justice is done.' The U.S.

president's message, read out by the American consul general for Scotland, Cathy
Hurst, said: 'This cowardly act of terrorism outraged civilised men and women
everywhere.' President Clinton paid tribute to relatives and Lockerbie townsfolk
who turned sorrow into 'a source of strength for all who stand against terror'.
And he declared:

'We mark this milestone at the time of the winter solstice, when the sun begins
to reclaim the day.

'It is a fitting moment to note your extraordinary determination to bring light
from this tragedy.' The explosion on December 21, 1988 killed all 259 passengers
and crew aboard the jumbo jet The Maid of the Seas, while another 11 people were
killed on the ground.

The stalemate over the two Libyans accused of the bombing was broken earlier
this year when Britain agreed to a trial in a neutral venue but with Scottish
judges.

This appeared to find favour with Libya until last night when Colonel Gaddafi
insisted on an international court. But he said he did not rule out reaching a
compromise with Britain and the U.S. over the trial of the two men.

Gaddafi attacked the West's use of sanctions against Libya. The Libyan
government has denied any involvement in the downing of Pan Am flight 103 over
the Scottish town of Lockerbie 10 years ago.

The Prime Minister said that Colonel Gaddafi should now accept what was on offer
and hand over the two suspects for trial in the Netherlands.

'The international community has to help put the pressure on and make this
happen because ten years on, it's about time there was a trial,' he said.

And he added: 'We have come quite a long way in agreeing to a third country
trial. The justice system in Scotland is as good as anywhere in the world.

'Obviously we resented very much any suggestion that the Libyans wouldn't get a
fair trial in Scotland - they would.

'But in order to accommodate whatever concerns there were we decided we would
accede to the request to have it in a third country.' UN Secretary-General Kofi
Annan, who met with Colonel Gaddafi earlier this month to discuss a possible
handover of the suspects, said yesterday he remained hopeful of 'a positive
decision' from the Libyan government and told relatives of the victims not to
give up hope.

'I had hoped it would come before this date, the anniversary, but I have not
lost hope and they (the relatives) should not,' Mr Annan said.

'It's regrettable that ten years after the event we have not been able to get to
the truth so that the families can put this behind them, mourn their dead and
carry on with their lives,' he added.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for UK Families of Flight 103, made up of the relatives
of the British victims aboard the PanAm jet, acknowledged there were concerns
that the bombing of Iraq could cause difficulties in relation to the handover of
the two Libyan suspects.


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: UNITED IN GRIEF: PRESIDENT AND MRS CLINTON AT ARLINGTON CEMETERY,
WASHINGTON; BELOW: TONY BLAIR AND PRINCE ANDREW AT WESTMINSTER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1998 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 22, 1998

Pledge for justice as Gaddafi queries court;The world remembers Lockerbie

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 797 words


BRITAIN and the United States last night vowed to bring those responsible for
the Lockerbie bombing to justice as people across the world paid tribute to the
270 victims.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and President Bill Clinton delivered their pledges in
messages read out at a 10th anniversary service in Lockerbie, and Foreign
Secretary Robin Cook again insisted that the two suspects, if convicted, must
serve their sentences in Scotland.

However, Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi told Dutch television he wanted the men
accused of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an international court.

Arrangements have been made for the trial to take place under Scottish law at a
Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands.

The Libyan leader cast a shadow over this proposal when he said: "An
international court is the solution, with judges from America, Libya, England,
and other countries.''

Earlier, Mr Cook said he had been encouraged by Libya's recent indications that
it was moving towards surrendering the two suspects for trial.

He warned that Britain and the US would not be prepared to compromise on the
fate of the suspects should they be convicted. "This offence took place in
Scottish jurisdiction, they're on trial in a Scottish court. It is logical, it
is fair, it is right that they should serve their sentence in a Scottish
prison," Mr Cook insisted.

The town of Lockerbie fell silent last night at 7.03pm, exactly 10 years after
the wreckage of PanAm flight 103 ploughed into the heart of the community. Two
hundred and seventy men, women and children died in what was the largest peace
-time mass murder Britain has seen.

As well as Lockerbie, services were held in London, Washing-ton, and in
Syracuse, New York, where 35 of the young victims had attended university.

At the Lockerbie service, Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary
Donald Dewar, recalled "a calamity made and perpetrated by men" which had
imprinted itself on the public mind. He declared: "Today, as we remember those
who died and those who mourn, we renew our resolve to establish the truth and to
ensure that justice is done."

The US President's message, read out by the American consul general for
Scotland, Ms Cathy Hurst, told those gathered in sombre remembrance in
Lockerbie: "This cowardly act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the
United States and Great Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere."

President Clinton paid tribute to

Continued on Page 5

Continued from Page 1

relatives and Lockerbie townsfolk who, he said, had turned sorrow into "a source
of strength for all who stand against terror".

He declared: "We mark this milestone at the time of the winter solstice, when
the sun begins to reclaim the day. It is a fitting moment to note your
extraordinary determination to bring light forth from this tragedy."

A message from the Queen read: "Our thoughts and prayers today are with the
families and friends of those 270 people, from so many countries, whose lives
were tragically taken in the Lockerbie bombing 10 years ago. Time cannot erase
their memory."

The Lockerbie service was deliberately low-key to mark an event that many locals
hope will draw a final line under the tragedy.

The sole official event on the 10th anniversary involved the laying of a wreath
in the town's cemetery by the Duke of Edinburgh under cold and leaden skies.

Last week, Libya's parliament, the General People's Congress, issued a statement
expressing broad satisfaction with a plan to try the suspects, Abdel Baset Ali
Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimahare, in the Netherlands under a
panel of Scottish judges.

It added the caveat, however, that obstacles must be overcome before the two
could be handed over. While not specifying those obstacles, the issue of where
the two men would be jailed if convicted has proved a stumbling block.

Colonel Gaddafi's latest statement that he wants the men tried by an
international court could dent the hopes of campaigners seeking to establish the
definitive version of events leading up to the disaster and an early trial in
The Hague.

Speaking in London before a memorial service in Westminster Abbey, Dr Jim Swire,
the leader of the British families whose relatives died, said there were
indications that the Libyans could be released soon.

The impression he had gained from his contacts with the Libyans was that a
handover of the two men would occur at the end of Ramadan.

Dr Swire, whose daughter Flora was killed in the bombing, refused to accept that
there was "any linkage" between the bombing of Iraq and the PanAm jet disaster,
although Linlithgow MP Tam Dalyell believes Operation Desert Fox could
jeopardise the trial.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Message of comfort: the Rev David Almond, of Dryfesdale Parish Church,
Lockerbie, prepares for the service Picture: ADAM BUTLER/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 22, 1998

The quiet, final goodbye;A minute's silence on a cold December night gives many
the chance to draw a line under dreadful past

BYLINE: Lorna Maclaren

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 927 words


Local residents and overseas visitors gathered last night for the memorial
service at Dryfesdale Church, Lockerbie, in memory of the 270 victims of flight
103

AT 7.03pm yesterday, the town of Lockerbie fell silent. For exactly one minute,
there was barely a sound other than the steady patter of winter rain.

The peaceful dark streets, illuminated by Christmas lights, could not have made
a more dramatic contrast to those same seconds 10 years before.

It was then the wreckage of Pan Am flight 103 ploughed deep into the heart of
the community. A terrorist bomb left 270 men, women, and children in the air and
on the ground dead in what was the largest peace-time mass murder Britain has
yet seen.

At an emotional tenth anniversary service last night in Dryfesdale Parish
Church, local people and international visitors whose loved ones were on the
doomed flight were taken back to that moment when their lives were changed
irrevocably.

The minute's silence in the church was broken by the dramatic and haunting tones
of a lament played by lone piper Fiona McCall. She played Flowers of the Forest,
originally composed to commemorate the Scottish dead of the Battle of Flodden.

The gentle, low-key service included hymns and readings and a song poignantly
sung by youngsters from Lockerbie primary school.

As candles were lit for every victim, similar tributes were taking place in
London's Westminster Abbey, while American relatives gathered at Arlington
national cemetery in Washington, and more at Syracuse University, which lost
more than 30 homeward-bound students in the bombing.

American President Bill Clinton, Prime Minister Tony Blair, and the Queen were
among those to send messages of support to the bereaved.

The quiet nature of the anniversary was evident at the sole official event in
Lockerbie yesterday, when a wreath was laid in the town's cemetery by the Duke
of Edinburgh. About 200 people - locals and many overseas relatives - stood in
bitterly cold temperatures to watch the duke, bareheaded in the rain, placing
the tribute at a polished stone tablet bearing the names of the dead.

Dozens of flowers were left, some with no inscription. One, a tiny red Christmas
stocking, was put down by an American couple with the message: "Dearest Amy,
Merry Christmas honey, here is your favourite Christmas present. We miss you,
love Mom and Dad." Another was left with a message of support from the people of
Dunblane.

Those touched by the disaster say the only ray of light since the bombing has
been the incredible bond of support forged between the families across 21
nations whose loved ones were on the aircraft - and the Lockerbie community.

The anniversary is seen by many local residents as an opportunity for closure
and a chance to turn away from the alien world of murder and international
terrorism foisted upon them to something resembling ordinary life.

This feeling was reflected in the decision of a number of American families who
said a final goodbye to Lockerbie as they paid their last respects.

Last night, in Sherwood Crescent, near what was the devastating epicentre of the
crash, Christmas tree lights shone from the immaculate gardens dotted with
children's toys.

Only a memorial plaque, smothered in flowers, dedicated to the residents killed
there, including two youngsters, acts as a stark reminder of how ordinary homes
and families on that spot were obliterated in seconds.

All left behind say they can never forget - but the overriding feeling which
emerges in talking to local people is: "Now we must look to the future."

Mrs Jess MacTaggart is one who shares this view. As owner of the Lockerbie High
Street florist shop, she has dealt with the bereaved since 1988.

As memories resurface, her tearfulness overwhelms her: "I ran a florist shop 10
years ago and sold many wreaths after that night. Since then, I've come to know
those who come in every year for their flowers. The tenth anniversary has been
overwhelming and very emotional."

Mrs MacTaggart can speak only briefly of her own experience: "My husband had
come to pick me up from work when the explosion happened and we saw flames. We
drove towards our house where our two children were.

"I'll never forget not knowing what to expect when we got there. There was no
communication, the phones were down, and the heat all around us was incredible."

She becomes too upset to go on, adding only that her family was lucky and found
to be safe.

"We will always support those hurt by the disaster. It tore apart our community.
There are not many of us, and naturally you get to know most faces."

She said: "It is so important that we move on now. The attention on our town
since that night has been well meant but I hope the anniversary can be a
watershed and we can look now to the future."

Fellow resident Denise Carruthers, 42, agrees: "Most of us try not to dwell on
the past. Those who have lost loved ones have no choice but the community is
moving forward now and I feel the tenth anniversary will help draw a line under
the disaster."

As the international political and legal rows surrounding the bombing of flight
103 rage on, it seems the people of Lockerbie are keeping the victims in their
hearts while beginning another chapter of their community's history.

q Burglars raided four homes in the Sherwood area of the town on Sunday as it
prepared for yesterday's memorial services. It is understood the people affected
were not directly linked to the disaster.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 22, 1998

President tells victims' families that all Americans still share their sorrow

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 684 words


US President Bill Clinton promised last night that all Americans shared the
sorrow of the families of Lockerbie victims.

In a message read to those remembering the tragedy in the town yesterday, the
President said: "The bombing of Pan Am 103 over Lockerbie on December 21, 1988,
stole the lives of 270 people and brought grief to families in 21 nations.

"This cowardly act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the United
States and Great Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere. Now, on
the anniversary of the attack on Pan Am 103, I know that your memories of the
loved ones that you lost are undiminished by the passing of time.

"I know, too, that all Americans still share your sorrow, and we are united in
our resolve to see that those responsible for this awful act are brought to
justice.

"Ten years ago, the families of those who were aboard Pan Am 103, and the people
of Lockerbie, were brought together by the devastating loss they shared.

"In the intervening years, the people of Lockerbie have shown tremendous
kindness toward those whom they first met in the aftermath of the tragedy and to
those who have since come to Lockerbie to remember, building warm and enduring
friendships.

"I salute all of you gathered in Lockerbie who, along with the families of
victims from my country and elsewhere, have turned sorrow into a source of
strength for all who stand against terror. Your courage is a fine and lasting
tribute to the memory of all those who died at Lockerbie.

"We mark this milestone at the time of the winter solstice, when the sun begins
to reclaim the day. It is a fitting moment to note your extraordinary
determination to bring light forth from this tragedy."

President Clinton's message was read by Cathy L Hurst, principal officer of the
Consulate General of the United States In Scotland.

Scottish Secretary Donald Dewar, who attended the service, said: "I was in
Lockerbie this day 10 years ago. I shall never forget that experience. I
remember the pain, the shock and the grief of that night. Those events broke
violently and tragically into the lives of victims, their relatives and friends,
the emergency services and all who lived in Lockerbie.

"The whole nation shared that grief. We have shared the painful and all too
often frustrating search for the truth.

"Today, as then, those who suffered command the respect and sympathy of the
people of Scotland and the rest of the United Kingdom."

Mr Dewar read a message from Prime Minister Tony Blair. It read: "Today, 10
years on, we remember a tragic event - a calamity made and perpetrated by men -
which has imprinted itself indelibly in the minds of the people of this country.

"The passage of 10 years has not diminished the awful memories of that event,
when the peace of the night was shattered for the townspeople of Lockerbie.

"My thoughts today are with the families and friends of those innocent victims
in the air and on the ground whose lives were so cruelly taken away by an act of
terrorism without parallel in our history.

"Over the last 10 years, I have often been reminded of the dignity of the people
of Lockerbie. You can be proud of the comfort and help you offered to the
grieving relatives from within and beyond your community.

"I am deeply impressed by the bonds you have formed by bringing together
communities from across the Atlantic and from around the world, sharing a common
sense of loss and a shared resolve not to forget.

"Today, as we remember those who died and those who mourn, we renew our resolve
to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done."

A message from the Queen was read by Lord Lieutenant of Dumfries, Captain Ronald
Cunningham-Jardine. It read: "Our thoughts and prayers today are with the
families and friends of those 270 people, from so many countries, whose lives
were tragically taken in the Lockerbie bombing 10 years ago. Time cannot erase
their memory.

"We pray that on this anniversary the families will find solace together in
quiet remembrance across the world."

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 22, 1998, Tuesday

Ten years on, Lockerbie still awaits its moment of justice and truth

BYLINE: By Mary Braid

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 665 words


IT WAS a poignant moment. As the people of Lockerbie gathered at the town's
Dryfesdale Cemetery yesterday, with the American relatives of those who perished
on Pan Am flight 103, a child clasped the hand of an adult and gazed up at the
border skies in which the Boeing 747 was blown apart exactly 10 years ago.

Yesterday was an international day of remembrance for the 259 passengers who
died in the terrorist attack, and the 11 Lockerbie victims killed when the plane
crashed to earth. While some 20 American families travelled to Scotland, British
relatives of the bomb victims came together at Westminster Cathedral.

The Westminster gathering was designed to take attention away from Lockerbie,
where many would now like the town to move on from the tragedy.

Even Bill Clinton took a few moments away from the upheavals of presidential
impeachment and the Iraq crisis to remember the crash. Under clammy skies he led
a short service at Arlington National Cemetery, Virginia, and dedicated a cairn
of 270 stones to the dead - one for every victim.

Another service was held simultaneously in Syracuse, in upstate New York, on the
campus of the city university that lost 35 students when the plane was bombed
out of the sky. They had been returning home for the Christmas holidays.

Yesterday was not just a day of pain, but also of frustration Ten years after
the tragedy Western governments are yet to deliver justice to the families of
those who died.

Though there have been many false dawns, these are more hopeful times.  The US
and British governments have agreed to proposals for Scottish justice to be
exercised on foreign soil and Libya has backed the scheme for two of its
nationals - suspects in the outrage - to be tried by an international court.

Yesterday the politicians were still promising the families they would bring
those responsible for the tragedy to justice. Tony Blair, promising to enlist
the help of South African president Nelson Mandela to lobby the Libyan leader
Colonel Muammar Gaddafi.

Colonel Gaddafi was meanwhile telling Dutch television he wanted the men accused
of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an international court.

The diplomatic initiatives have warmed the heart of those who have fought to
keep the atrocity in the public eye. But the past decade has also built up
distrust of politicians, with families now convinced that their own governments
failed to pass on warnings that a terrorist attack was imminent.

Politicians, it seems, continue to speak with forked tongues. Yesterday's
statement by Colonel Gaddafi actually muddied the waters. For he called for
judges from "America, Libya, England and other countries" to be involved when
the plan acceptable to the US and Britain specifies three Scottish judges.

The frustration with politicians was alluded to yesterday at Dryfesdale during
the low key ceremony at which the sole official event was the laying of a wreath
by the Duke of Edinburgh at the town's cemetery.

Fr Patrick Keegans, the priest who provided spiritual help to the victims's
families, spoke almost directly to the dead. "You will see us laying wreaths at
your stone," he said. "We want you to be sure that these wreaths are not hollow
empty gestures but a statement and declaration full of promise.

"Ten years ago, for you and for us, a bomb was ticking. Know this, there is
another bomb ticking, the irresistible bomb of justice and truth. Know this,
that our wreath-laying today is not a symbolic gesture. It is a declaration that
we will not rest until we have justice and truth, until all responsible for your
deaths are held accountable."

Yesterday, the families made yet another appeal to their politicians to get it
right this time. They asked Mr Blair and President Clinton not to jeopardise the
prospect of a trial of the two Libyan suspects with threats of renewed military
action in the Middle East in the wake of the Iraqi bombings.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1998 Independent Print Ltd

                              85 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 22, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

Anglo-US 'justice' pledge on Lockerbie -;
Blair and Clinton in vow as tribute paid to 270 bombing victims

BYLINE: By Joe Quinn

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 445 words


   BRITAIN and the United States last night vowed to bring to justice those
responsible for the Lockerbie bombing as the world paid tribute to the 270
victims.

The pledge, delivered in similar terms by each, came from Prime Minister Tony
Blair and President Bill Clinton, in messages read out at a 10th anniversary
service in the town.

The two leaders' messages came as Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi told Dutch
television he wanted the men accused of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an
international court.

Arrangements have been made for the trial to take place under Scottish law at a
Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands. But the Libyan leader said: "An
international court is the solution, with judges from America, Libya, England
and other countries."

In Lockerbie last night, Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary
Donald Dewar, recalled "a calamity made and perpetrated by men" which had
imprinted itself on the public mind.

And he declared: "Today, as we remember those who died and those who mourn, we
renew our resolve to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done."

The US president's message, read out by the American consul general for
Scotland, Cathy Hurst, likewise told those gathered in sombre remembrance in
Lockerbie: "This cowardly act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the
United States and Great Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere."

President Clinton paid tribute to relatives and Lockerbie townsfolk who turned
sorrow into "a source of strength for all who stand against terror".

A message from the Queen read: "Our thoughts and prayers today are with the
families and friends of those 270 people, from so many countries, whose lives
were tragically taken in the Lockerbie bombing 10 years ago. Time cannot erase
their memory."

This was a theme echoed last night across two continents on the 10th anniversary
of the outrage which claimed 270 lives when a terrorist radio-cassette bomb
brought down Pan Am Flight 103 over the quiet Scottish town.

In separate events, British relatives gathered for a service in Westminster,
some American relatives gathered at Arlington national cemetery in Washington,
and yet more gathered at Syracuse University in the US, which lost more than 30
home-going students in the bombing.

In Lockerbie, the Duke of Edinburgh laid a wreath at the polished stone tablet
bearing all the names of the dead in the town's cemetery.

About 200 people - locals and many of the overseas relatives who travelled to
Lockerbie for the anniversary - watched in sombre silence as the Duke,
bareheaded in the rain, laid the wreath.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              86 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 22, 1998, Tuesday Edition 1

'Indelible imprint'

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 600 words


   Blair tribute

THE message from the Prime Minister was last night was delivered at services in
both Lockerbie and the US.

Tony Blair and wife Cherie were attending a commemoration service at London's
Westminster Abbey.

The text of his message being, read by Scottish Secretary Donald Dewar in
Lockerbie last night, was as follows:

"Today, 10 years on, we remember a tragic event - a calamity made and
perpetrated by men - which has imprinted itself indelibly in the minds of the
people of this country. The passage of 10 years has not diminished the awful
memories of that event when the peace of the night was shattered for the
townspeople of Lockerbie. My thoughts today are with the families and friends of
those innocent victims in the air and on the ground whose lives were so cruelly
taken away by an act of terrorism without parallel in our history.

"Over the last 10 years, I have often been reminded of the dignity of the people
of Lockerbie.

"You can be proud of the comfort and help you offered to the grieving relatives
from within and beyond your community. I am deeply impressed by the bonds you
have formed by bringing together communities from across the Atlantic and from
around the world, sharing a common sense of loss and a shared resolve not to
forget. Today, as we remember those who died and those who mourn, we renew our
resolve to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done."

Relatives

CAMPAIGNERS seeking to establish the definitive version of events leading up to
the Lockerbie disaster yesterday predicted the two Libyans accused of the
bombing by the US and Britain would be handed over for trial within weeks.

Dr Jim Swire, spokesman for UK Families Flight 103, made up of the relatives of
the British victims aboard the Pan Am jet, said the impression he had got from
his contacts with the Libyans was that a handover of two men - suspected
intelligence officers Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa
Fhimahare - would occur within a few weeks.

ABOUT 30 Americans arrived in the town for the deliberately low-key anniversary
service in Dryfesdale Church.

The event was timed to coincide with the start of Lockerbie's longest night 10
years ago when the bomb brought down the plane. The service began just after 7pm
- the time of the tragedy - with a one-minute silence, followed by Flowers of
the Forest, a haunting bagpipe lament originally composed to commemorate the
dead of the Battle of Flodden. The service included prayers, hymns and scripture
readings, and a tribute from Lockerbie Primary School children.

Wreath-laying

LOCKERBIE'S parish priest when Pan Am flight 103 crashed on to the town
yesterday spoke of the "ticking bomb" of justice as he attended a wreath-laying
ceremony for the victims.

Father Pat Keegans delivered a speech to around 200 relatives of the bereaved
and townspeople.

Father Keegans told them: "Ten years ago for you and for us a bomb was ticking.

"Be assured of this - there is another bomb ticking - the irresistible bomb of
justice and truth.

"Be certain that our wreath-laying today is not a symbolic gesture.

"It is a declaration that we will not rest until we have justice and truth,
until all who are responsible for your deaths are held accountable."

Father Keegans recalled "270 unique precious human beings" including three
children from the town who died in the tragedy.

He said: "The people of Lockerbie should be proud of themselves, that the love
which they showed to others from the beginning is an example to the whole
world."

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Silent remembrance: The people of Lockerbie gather at Dryfesdale Church
to remember those who died.

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              87 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 22, 1998

It's time for justice;
 No hiding place for Lockerbie bomb suspects

BYLINE: Joe Quinn ;Nick Meo

SECTION: News, Pg.25

LENGTH: 371 words




BRITAIN and the United States vowed last night to bring to justice those
responsible for the Lockerbie bombing as the world paid tribute to the 270
victims.

The pledge, delivered in similar terms by each, came from Prime Minister Tony
Blair and President Bill Clinton, in messages read out at a tenth anniversary
service in the town.

The two leaders' messages came as Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi told Dutch
television he wanted the men accused of planting the Lockerbie bomb tried by an
international court.

Arrangements have been made for the trial to take place under Scottish law at a
Scottish court sitting in the Netherlands.

But the Libyan leader said: ''An international court is the solution, with
judges from America, Libya, England and other countries.''

In Lockerbie last night, Mr Blair's message, read out by Scottish Secretary
Donald Dewar, recalled ''a calamity made and perpetrated by men'' which had
imprinted itself on the public mind.

And he declared: ''As we remember those who died and those who mourn, we renew
our resolve to establish the truth and to ensure that justice is done.''

The U.S. president's message, read out by the American consul general for
Scotland Cathy Hurst, told those gathered in sombre remembrance in Lockerbie:
''This cowardly act of terrorism outraged not only the people of the United
States and Great Britain, but also civilised men and women everywhere.''

President Clinton paid tribute to relatives and Lockerbie townsfolk who turned
sorrow into ''a source of strength for all who stand against terror''.

A message from the Queen read: ''Our thoughts and prayers today are with the
families and friends of those 270 people, from so many countries, whose lives
were tragically taken in the Lockerbie bombing ten years ago.

"Time cannot erase their memory"

The sole official event in Lockerbie was the laying of a wreath in the town's
cemetery by the Duke of Edinburgh.

But some British relatives gathered for a service in Westminster, some American
relatives went to Arlington national cemetery in Washington, and yet more
gathered at Syracuse University in the U.S., which lost more than 30
homeward-bound students in the bombing.


LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1998 Bristol United Press

                              88 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 23, 1998, Wednesday Edition 4

Handcuff demo as terrorists are freed

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 216 words


   A notorious IRA bomber slipped out of the Maze prison as fury erupted today
over the Christmas release of 170 jailed terrorists in Northern Ireland.

Sean Kelly was smuggled out through a staff door after the daughter of two of
his victims handcuffed herself to an exit gate in protest at the 10 days'
holiday parole for paramilitaries.

Angry Michelle William-son said: "Kelly is an even bigger murdering coward than
I though he was."

The IRA man from north Belfast is serving life for killing her parents and eight
other people, one an accomplice who died in a bomb attack on a Belfast
fishmonger's shop in 1993.

Waiting

Milltown Cemetery killer Michael Stone was one of the first of the loyalists to
be allowed out but he left without making any comment and was driven off in a
waiting car.

His close associate, the Ulster Freedom Fighters commander Johnny Adair was also
released.

Later it was confirmed the Balcombe Street gang were freed on Christmas parole
from prison in the Irish Republic.

The four - the longest-serving terrorist prisoners in Britain and Ireland - were
jailed in 1976 after a six-day siege in London and repatriated from Britain to
Ireland last May.

They are among 17 IRA and four INLA men in Portlaoise Prison to be granted home
leave.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1998 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              89 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 24, 1998

Anger as prison authorities sneak IRA bomber past victims' daughter

BYLINE: Aine Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 560 words


AN IRA bomber, granted parole for Christmas, sneaked out of the Maze prison
yesterday to escape a confrontation with the daughter of two of his victims.

Sean Kelly was smuggled out through a staff door as Michelle Williamson
handcuffed herself to an exit gate in protest at the decision to grant
paramilitaries 10 days holiday parole.

He was one of 170 of the province's worst killers and terrorists freed to spend
the festive season with their family and friends.

The mother of one locked herself to the turnstile through which Kelly was due to
be released, in a bid to hand him a letter asking why he had killed her parents.

Kelly planted the bomb which killed George and Gillian Williamson, when an
explosion demolished a fishmonger's shop on Belfast's Shankill Road in 1993.

But Kelly was the only one of the 170 prisoners released not to emerge through
the gate, where Ms Williamson was chained.

Officials from the Northern Ireland Office stepped in and ordered prison staff
to allow Kelly to leave by the staff exit on the other side of the high
-security jail near Lisburn, County Antrim.

A prison source said yesterday: "There was furious row inside because the
wardens did not want him to be treated differently from anyone else. But the NIO
stepped in and ordered his release through the back door."

After she heard that the terrorist had been allowed to slip away quietly, she
unlocked the handcuffs and said: "He is a coward now, just as he was when he
planted the bomb.

"I can't believe that he hasn't got the courage to come out and face one woman.
And it is scandalous that the Government should help him dodge the questions
that I want him to answer."

Ms Williamson was accompanied by Lagan Valley MP Jeffery Donaldson and Ian
Paisley junior, son of the Democratic Unionist Party leader.

Kelly was one of a number high-profile terrorists released yesterday and who,
under the terms of the Good Friday peace agreement are due to be freed
permanently by the summer of 2000 at the latest.

Patrick Magee, jailed in 1985 for the bomb at the Grand Hotel in Brighton which
narrowly missed killing Margaret Thatcher and the entire Cabinet, was greeted by
friends and family.

Also freed was Michael Stone, the loyalist who attacked an IRA funeral with guns
and grenades, killing three mourners. At his trial the judge branded Stone "a
dangerous and ruthless killer".

Stone's associate, the Ulster Freedom Fighters commander Johnny "Mad Dog" Adair,
one of the most feared men in the province and jailed for organising terrorism,
pulled a baseball cap over his face as he left the prison, without making any
comment.

It was also confirmed that the Balcombe Street gang had been freed in the Irish
Republic on Christmas parole.

The four men - the longest-serving terrorist prisoners in Britain and Ireland -
were jailed in 1976 following a six-day siege in London. They were repatriated
from Britain to Ireland last May.

The group, Hugh Doherty, Martin O'Connell, Edward Butler, and Harry Duggan, are
among 17 IRA and four Irish National Liberation Army men in Portlaise Prison to
be granted home leave.

Fourteen prisoners were freed on Tuesday and three others got out yesterday
morning for breaks of between three and 12 days, the Irish department of
Justice, Equality and Law Reform said.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Patrick Magee: Brighton bomber met by friends;Loyalist Michael Stone,
who killed three mourners at an IRA funeral, was among 170 terrorists freed for
Christmas Picture: John Giles

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1998 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 29, 1998, Tuesday

IRA CHIEF 'TRIED TO MURDER' GEORGE VI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 320 words


A TOP IRA man may have travelled to the United States in 1939 to assassinate
King George VI and Queen Elizabeth, now the Queen Mother.

J Edgar Hoover, director of the FBI who had files on Frank Sinatra, Pablo
Picasso and Groucho Marx, as well as the IRA's then Chief-of-Staff Sean Russell,
strongly suspected that the leading terrorist was on a murder mission when he
booked into Chicago's Morrison Hotel on June 1, 1939.

Russell had falsely obtained a visa by telling the US embassy in Dublin that his
name was John, he was a building contractor and was going to America to visit
his aunt.

In the United States, however, he didn't conceal his identity and boasted to Los
Angeles journalists that he had ordered recent IRA bombs in Britain and that
they would continue until British troops left Ireland and "my men are released
from jail".

According to the Sunday Times newspaper, J Edgar Hoover ordered Russell to be
closely followed after he had made the anti-British remarks to the media.

Fears for the safety of the Royal couple grew more intense when Californian Dr
Alfred Disley, a cancer research specialist, told journalists at a Los Angeles
Press conference that he was, in fact, "a British Secret Service agent with the
designation F-10" who had investigated and could categorically state that
Russell was in America with the intention of disposing of the Royal couple.

He also claimed that the leading IRA man was conspiring with American Nazis to
achieve his aim.

Elsewhere, a British diplomat made the same claim to the US State Department.

Security around the Royal visitors, however, was stepped up as soon as they
approached the United States from Canada.

Albert Canning, the head man from Scotland Yard, was sure that there was a
threat to his charges from Russell and he was eventually arrested in Detroit at
Michigan Central Station as he stepped off a train.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1998

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ASSASSINATION TARGET: King George VI and Queen Elizabeth

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1998 Century Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 1, 1999, Friday Edition 1

World headline makers

SECTION: FEATURES, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 307 words

tories which hit the national and international headlines: he pressure of the
White House scandals seemed to be getting to President Clinton as prosecutor
Kenneth Starr turned his attention to Hilary in the Whitewater inquiry.  umours
abounded that the Spice Girls were to become four.
   en came the news that devastated the fans - Ginger Spice had quit the band.
Later Posh and Scary announced they were pregnant.  welve Titanic telegrams went
under the hammer at Christie's, raising £45,712.  ohamed Al Fayed accused
Diana's mother Frances Shand Kydd of being a snob.  ir Paul McCartney was joined
by hundreds of friends at a tribute service to his late wife Linda.  anny Louise
Woodward was free to return to Britain after her conviction for second degree
murder was reduced to manslaughter on appeal.  orld Cup month saw Teddy
Sheringham relaxing in a Portuguese nightclub. The England team did well until
David Beckham was sent off for kicking an Opposing player. Michael Owen,
nevertheless, became the 18-year-old darling of the crowd with a magnificent
goal.  octors asked the Government to issue guidelines on the prescription of
Viagra as, with the World Cup out of the way, enthusiastic couples across
Britain wanted to test it our.  ore than 140 people were killed after a bomb
destroyed the US embassy in Nairobi, Kenya. Minutes later a car bomb killed at
least nine people outside the US embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.  500lb bomb
ripped apart the centre of Omagh in County Tyrone. It killed 29 people and
injured 220. It was the worst atrocity in the history of the troubles. The IRA
was blamed for the tragedy as Tony Blair vowed to track down the killers.
rozac, hippy-dippy and Tamagotchi were among the new words that entered the
Oxford dictionary.  Tomorrow: Final part of our review of the year.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              92 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 1, 1999, Friday

YEMEN POLICE ACCUSED OF SHOOTING COVER-UP;
 THEY MADE ME CHANGE STORY SAYS BRIT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 371 words


From GRAHAM BROUGH in Yemen and MARK DOWDNEY, Foreign Editor

BRITISH survivors of the Yemen hostage shootout accused the police of a cover
-up yesterday.

Laurence Whitehouse - who saw his wife killed in the gun battle - said a Secret
Police colonel made him change his statement to protect Yemeni troops.

And David Holmes hit out angrily: "Certain people are trying to gloss over
things - nobody stops me telling the truth."

The claims fuelled the diplomatic row between Britain and Yemen over the bungled
rescue in which three Britons and an Australian died.

Despite the hostages' stories the Yemen government insists the troops attacked
only after the terrorists started killing their captives.

Teacher Laurence, 54, of Hook, Hants, said he made a two-page statement.  Then
came a second interview with the colonel.

Laurence, who insists his wife Margaret, 52, died in the crossfire, said: "They
kept in 'You've killed my wife', which I shouted at the terrorists.

"But I had added, 'The bullet could have been anybody's'. The colonel didn't
like that and wanted it deleted - I deleted it."

David Holmes, 64, of Grimsby, said: "I'm increasingly angry at what's been
happening.

"I want the truth out. Certain people are trying to gloss over things.  Nobody
stops me telling the truth as I saw it.

"The two deaths I saw were caused by shots from soldiers."

A friend of victims Peter Rowe and Claire Marston tearfully blamed herself for
the tragedy.

Janet Watson, a leading expert on the country and lecturer with Peter at Durham
university, assured them it was safe just one day before their holiday.

Peter, 60, was killed. His partner Claire, 43, is in hospital seriously injured.

Janet, in Yemen on a study trip, said: "I feel it was my fault. I feel
responsible for assuring them it would be all right."

Amid the growing storm the Foreign Office protested to Yemen's ambassador at
their "failure to co-operate fully" in giving a full explanation.

Interior Minister Hussein Arab claimed they had foiled a plot to attack the
British consulate in Aden the day before Christmas Eve.

But the British embassy said it was not told until December 30, a week later.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEAD: Dr Peter Rowe;; TEARS: Laurence yesterday

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              93 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 2, 1999, Saturday

THAT WAS THE YEAR THAT WAS

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 942 words


JULY

France won the World Cup. Gordon Brown announced an extra package worth pounds
19 billion for education. The funeral of Russia's last Tsar took place in St
Petersburg.

Love is the sweetest thing: After a quiet June, Anthea Turner said that Grant
Bovey had broken her heart. And her dresses got more and more transparent.

Doctors asked the Government to issue guidelines on the prescription of Viagra.

White House shenanigans: Reports that Lewinsky would confess to sex with Clinton
hit the world. And it looked as though her stained midnight blue cocktail dress
(soon to be known as That Dress) would be tested for DNA.

A Year in Northern Ireland: Orangemen faced police and troops across barricades
at Drumcree. A chorus of calls came for an end to the protest after the murders
of three young brothers, burned to death in an arson attack on their home.

Tony's Cronies: Peter Mandelson won a seat in the Cabinet, while Harriet Harman
was sacked and Frank Field resigned because he was rejected for Harman's job as
Social Security Secretary.

Sporting triumphs and disasters: The English World Cup squad returned. But
shame-faced David Beckham hot-footed it to New York and into the comforting arms
of Posh Spice Victoria.

The Great British Weather: July was the hottest month worldwide since records
began. But in Britain, it was dull and wet.

A Royal Flush: Prince William met his father's companion Camilla Parker Bowles.

And FINALLY: John "Two Jags" Prescott found out what it was like for millions of
commuters as he travelled to work on the tube.

Personality of the month: Golf star Justin Rose, who, aged 17, caught the
imagination of the British public by coming fourth in the Open.

AUGUST

Car dealers enjoyed bumper business on the last sales bonanza before the
registration plate change and thousands of mink were let loose from a farm into
the New Forest.

More than 140 people were killed after a bomb destroyed the US embassy in
Nairobi, Kenya; minutes later a car bomb killed at least nine people outside the
US embassy in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania.

Love is the sweetest thing: Anthea Turner decided to battle on - posing for
Tatler wearing nothing more than a large python.

Half of the Spice Girls - Posh and Scary - announced they were pregnant.

White House shenanigans: The most difficult period of Clinton's presidency. He
admitted to an "inappropriate" relationship with Monica Lewinsky, but still
denied having sexual relations with her.

A Year in Northern Ireland: On August 15, a 500lb Republican bomb ripped apart
the centre of Omagh in County Tyrone. It killed 29 people and injured 220. The
splinter group, the Real IRA, was blamed for the tragedy.

Sporting triumphs and disasters: Britain finished the European Athletics
Championship with nine golds.

The Great British Weather: Hottest day of the year with temperatures in the mid
30s on August 8.

A Royal Flush: Tiggy Legge-Bourke was told off for letting Princes William and
Harry abseil a dam with no safety helmets.

Saddam Hussein escapes again: Talks about dismantling Iraq's arsenal broke down
as Foreign Secretary Robin Cook dismissed Saddam's complaints about weapons
inspectors as "patently absurd".

And FINALLY: Prozac, hippy-dippy and Tamagotchi were among the new words in the
new Oxford dictionary.

Personality of the month: The Queen Mum as she celebrated her 98th birthday.

SEPTEMBER

A devastated Duchess of York learned that her mother, Susan Barrantes had died
in a car crash in Argentina.

It is revealed that burglars can be caught by their dandruff because their DNA
patterns are found in it. One union leader lashed out at fat cat bosses calling
them, "greedy bastards".

Shares rallied after August's volatile movements, then the FTSE dropped again
prompted by fears over the perilous state of Japan's economy.

Love is the sweetest thing: Richard and Judy, hosts of ITV's This Morning,
staged a live Viagra test on their show with eager volunteers.

Spice Girl Mel B wed dancer Jimmy Gulzar. And there were boos all round after
rugby star Will Carling walked out on Ali Cockayne, his girlfriend and mother of
his 11-month-old son.

White House shenanigans: The explosive Starr report was published on the
Internet. Tearful Bill apologised. And the world read salacious details about
the cigar, the fondling and the presents. Trial by television was the next
humiliation, as a videoreco rding of Clinton's testimony was released for
broadcast around the world. And the opinion polls? Approval for the President
kept on rising.

A Year in Northern Ireland: President Clinton arrived in Omagh to meet relatives
of those who died in the bomb blast and he appealed to Northern Ireland not to
let peace slip away. The Real IRA announced a permanent ceasefire. On June 12,
29 years after they arrived, British soldiers left the streets of Belfast. And
Sinn Fein negotiator Martin McGuinness said he believed the disarmament of
terrorist organisations was possible.

BSkyB and Manchester United tried to allay fans' fears over a proposed pounds
623.4 million takeover of the club.

The Great (US) Weather: Hurricane Georges claimed 110 lives during its rampage
through the Caribbean, damaging Antigua, Haiti and the Dominican Republic.

A Royal Flush: The Queen was to meet more ordinary people on overseas visits, it
was announced.

And FINALLY: Conclusive evidence? Enthusiasts believed that the Loch Ness
monster had finally been captured on video.

Personality of the month: Sir Cliff Richard, who was voted a more famous
Christian than the Pope.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              94 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 2, 1999, Saturday

SECURITY LAPSE ROW OVER YEMEN ATTACK

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 398 words


SECURITY chiefs in Yemen knew days before 16 tourists were kidnapped that
Islamic terrorists were planning an attack on a British target.

But they failed to alert British diplomats, who learnt about the threat only
after four hostages had been killed in a disastrous rescue attempt.

The security lapse added further fuel to the diplomatic row between Britain and
Yemen today as the bodies of the three Britons killed in the shoot-out were
being flown home.

Diplomat Peter Pearce, speaking from Aden, said the bodies were being flown to
London via Amman on a Royal Jordanian flight leaving the south Yemeni city.

Tour group warned

Eight surviving Britons arrived back at Gatwick Airport last night, with the
belief growing that they might have been spared their ordeal had British
officials been told of the plot.

The tour group Explore Worldwide would have been warned to avoid Abyan province,
where Islamic fundamentalists were known to have terrorist bases.

The Yemenis, whose ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Office for the second
time last night, discovered the plot after arresting two extremists.

The men, thought to be from the Islamic Jihad group that carried out the kidnap,
told army officers on December 23 an attack on a British target was "imminent".

The threat was discovered by General Mohammed Salh Turaik, the man who
masterminded the rescue mission.

But British envoys were only notified of the threat two days ago - after
Tuesday's massacre that left three Britons and an Australian dead.

The blunder emerged as four Scotland Yard detectives arrived in the Yemen to
begin an investigation into the killings of Margaret Whitehouse, 54, Ruth
Williamson, 34, Peter Rowe, 60, and Australian Andrew Thirsk, 35.

Meanwhile, the survivors last night denied they had been put under pressure to
take part in an official cover-up.

Speaking at Gatwick, Brian Smith, from Peterborough, said: "None of us have any
idea who fired first. This is a question that has been fired at us time and time
again and all we can answer is that we simply do not know."

Sue Mattocks said she was not aware of any pressure on them to participate in a
cover-up by the Yemeni authorities.

She spoke of her sorrow for the four dead travellers and for Laurence
Whitehouse, of Hook, Hants, whose 52-year-old wife Margaret died in the
shooting.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SAFE RETURN: Former hostages Brian Smith, David Holmes and Sue Mattocks
arrive at Gatwick

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              95 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                January 2, 1999

Authorities knew of hostage plan
 HOSTAGES: Security chiefs failed to alert diplomats of danger

SECTION: Boxfile: 24 HOURS, Pg.14

LENGTH: 305 words


SECURITY chiefs in Yemen knew days before 16 tourists were kidnapped that
Islamic terrorists were planning an attack on a British target.

But they failed to alert British diplomats, who learned about the threat only
after four hostages had been killed in a disastrous rescue attempt.

The security lapse added further fuel to the diplomatic row between Britain and
Yemen today as the bodies of the three Britons killed in the shoot-out were
being flown home.

Diplomat Peter Pearce, speaking from Aden, said the bodies were being flown to
London via Amman on a Royal Jordanian flight leaving the south Yemeni city.

Eight surviving Britons arrived back at Gatwick Airport last night, with the
belief growing that they might have been spared their ordeal had British
officials been told of the plot.

The tour group Explore Worldwide would have been warned to avoid Abyan province,
where Islamic fundamentalists were known to have terrorist bases.

The Yemenis, who ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Office for the second
time last night, discovered the plot after arresting two extremists.

The men, thought to be from the Islamic Jihad group that carried out the kidnap,
told army officers on December 23 an attack on a British target was "imminent".

The threat was discovered by General Mohammed Salh Turaik, the man who
masterminded the rescue mission.

But British envoys were only notified of the threat two days ago - after
Tuesday's massacre that left three Britons and an Australian dead.

The blunder emerged as four Scotland Yard detectives arrived in the Yemen to
begin an investigation into the killings of Margaret Whitehouse, 54, Ruth
Williamson, 34, Peter Rowe, 60, and Australian Andrew Thirsk, 35.

Meanwhile, the survivors last night denied they had been put under pressure to
take part in an official cover-up.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: RELEASED: Former hostages Brian Smith, David Holmes and Sue Mattocks at
a news conference in Gatwick last night

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              96 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 2, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

New storm over attack

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 149 words


   SECURITY chiefs in Yemen knew days ago that Islamic terrorists were planning
to attack British targets, it was revealed today.

But diplomats only found out about the threat after four hostages - one from the
North East - had been killed during the bungled rescue attempt.

The revelation has fuelled the row between Britain and Yemen as the bodies of
the three Britons killed were flown home.

They include Peter Rowe, 60, a maths lecturer at Durham University, who was shot
in the back by the kidnappers as he tried to calm other hostages down.

His wife Claire Marston, 43, was shot three times in the shoulder. She is
recovering in hospital in Yemen.

Scotland Yard detectives have flown to the Yemen to investigate the deaths.

The Yemenis are thought to have discovered the plot after arresting two
extremists from the Islamic Jihad group.

(c) Full story - Page 4

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTIM - Dr Peter Rowe was shot dead

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              97 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      January 2, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Yemen knew of hostages plot

BYLINE: Daniel James

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 290 words


   Security chiefs in Yemen knew days before 16 tourists were kidnapped that
Islamic terrorists were planning an attack on a British target.

But they failed to alert British diplomats, who learnt about the threat only
after four hostages had been killed in a disastrous rescue attempt.

The lapse added fuel to the row between Britain and Yemen today as the bodies of
the three Britons killed in the shoot-out were being flown home.

Eight surviving Britons arrived at Gatwick Airport last night, with the belief
growing that they might have been spared their ordeal had British officials been
told of the plot. The tour group Explore Worldwide would have been warned to
avoid Abyan province, where Islamic fundamentalists have bases.

The Yemenis discovered the plot after arresting two extremists. The men, thought
to be from the Islamic Jihad group that carried out the kidnap, told army
officers an attack on a British target was "imminent".

The blunder emerged as Scotland Yard detectives arrived in the Yemen to begin an
investigation into the killings of Margaret Whitehouse, 54, Ruth Williamson, 34,
North East lecturer Peter Rowe, 60, and Australian Andrew Thirsk, 35. Dr Rowe
taught maths. His wife, Claire Marston, an accountancy lecturer at Newcastle's
Northumbria University, was shot three times in the shoulder and needed surgery.
She has been too ill to return to Britain

Last night the freed hostages denied they had been put under pressure to take
part in an official cover-up.

At Gatwick, Brian Smith said: "None of us have any idea who fired first. We
simply do not know."

And Sue Mattocks said she was not aware of any pressure on them to participate
in a cover-up by the Yemeni authorities.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ORDEAL - surviving hostages Brian Smith, David Holmes and Sue Mattocks
speaking last night

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              98 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 2, 1999

Gang planned Yemen bombs

BYLINE: JAMIE WILSON

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 349 words


THE Foreign Office yesterday confirmed that officials were investigating reports
that the leader of the gang that kidnapped 16 tourists in Yemen had been
planning to bomb British targets there five days earlier.

It is understood Abu Hassan, 28, wanted to exchange the 16 tourists for three
terrorist bombers captured by police in Aden a week before the kidnap.

Yemeni sources said police arrested the three men as they were about to launch
attacks at five locations, including the British consulate, Anglican church and
Aden Hotel, where the 12 survivors of last week's bungled rescue by Yemeni
soldiers were taken.

A FO spokesman said last night they were aware of the reports, which the
ambassador in Yemen was trying to check. "These reports have been floating
around since at least Friday, and the British Ambassador Vic Henderson, has been
pressing the authorities for more information with no verification as yet."

It was reported that a list of targets found in the hotel room where the bombers
were arrested included the Royal Hotel, which is used by 35 US soldiers training
Yemeni forces in mine clearance. Police also found automatic weapons, grenades,
and black hoods with eye slits.

Yemeni officials believe the bombings were to be revenge attacks for Britain's
role in December's air raids on Iraq.

Hassan is believed to be a member of Jihad, the Islamic fundamentalist group,
and to have been trained by Osama Bin Laden, the man believed to be behind last
year's attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

British diplomats in the region are said to be furious with the Yemeni
authorities for not alerting them to the bomb plot or the arrests so that they
could warn tourists to keep clear of areas where Islamic groups have camps.

Hassan is being held at a police station at Zinjubar, 160 miles from the scene
of last week's shoot-out between kidnappers and government forces in which three
Britons and an Australian died.

The surviving hostages, who returned to Britain last week, will be asked to
identify Hassan from photographs.


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              99 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                January 2, 1999

Yemenis knew of British kidnap plot

SECTION: Crime: Kidnapping, Pg.2

LENGTH: 319 words


Security chiefs in Yemen knew days before 16 tourists were kidnapped that
Islamic terrorists were planning an attack on a British target.

But they failed to alert British diplomats, who learned about the threat only
after four hostages had been killed in a disastrous rescue attempt.

The security lapse added further fuel to the diplomatic row between Britain and
Yemen today as the bodies of the three Britons killed in the shoot-out were
being flown home.

Diplomat Peter Pearce, speaking from Aden, said the bodies were being flown to
London via Amman on a Royal Jordanian flight leaving the south Yemeni city.

Eight surviving Britons arrived back at Gatwick Airport last night, with the
belief growing that they might have been spared their ordeal had British
officials been told of the plot.

The tour group Explore Worldwide would have been warned to avoid Abyan province,
where Islamic fundamentalists were known to have bases.

The Yemenis, who ambassador was summoned to the Foreign Office for the second
time last night, discovered the plot after arresting two extremists.

The men, from the Islamic Jihad group that carried out the kidnap, told army
officers an attack on a British target was "imminent".

The threat was discovered by General Mohammed Salh Turaik, who masterminded the
rescue mission.

But British envoys were only notified of the threat two days ago - after
Tuesday's massacre that left three Britons and an Australian dead.

The blunder emerged as four Scotland Yard detectives arrived in the Yemen to
begin an investigation into the killings of Margaret Whitehouse, 54, Ruth
Williamson, 34, Peter Rowe, 60, and Australian Andrew Thirsk, 35.

Meanwhile, the survivors last night denied they had been put under pressure to
take part in an official cover-up.

Speaking at Gatwick, Brian Smith said: "None of us have any idea who fired
first.

"All we can answer is that we simply do not know."

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Former hostages, Brian Smith, David Holmes and Sue Mattocks arrive home
after their ordeal in Yemen

                          Copyright 1999 The Sentinel

                              100 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            January 4, 1999, Monday

ROGUE REPUBLICANS THREATEN BOMBINGS;
 NEW CIRA CAMPAIGN AIMED AT THE MILITARY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 388 words


SECURITY chiefs in Northern Ireland and Britain have warned that a new terror
offensive is about to be launched by republican militants.

Continuity IRA, which has been responsible for two bomb attacks in Northern
Ireland, is understood to have established two highly-trained units with orders
to strike at military targets early in 1999.

Police in north Belfast, where one of breakaway units is based, have already
returned to wearing flak jackets and ordered to travel in armoured vehicles.

According to intelligence sources CIRA has successfully recruited hardline
defectors from the Provisionals and also the Real IRA, which was forced to
disband after the Omagh atrocity last August.

Leading members of the Real IRA had been warned by the Provisionals that if they
did not disband they would be murdered.

Among CIRA's new recruits are explosives experts and hardened terrorists who
have access to supplies of explosives and weapons.

The group, based in Co Louth, has not yet established a significant armoury, but
police on both sides of the border believe they could attract more recruits and
weapons supplies through the launch of an effective strike against security
forces in Northern Ireland and commercial targets in Britain.

It is believed members of CIRA who disappeared from regular haunts in the
Republic have secretly moved to Britain where they are attempting to establish
the organisation's first active service unit outside Ireland.

Until recently they were training and experimenting with new bombing devices in
border areas around Hackballs Cross where up to 10 explosions were reported
early in December.

It has already bombed two hotels in Enniskillen where guests in both
miraculously escaped death and injury.

A series of recent armed robberies in the Republic have been attributed to CIRA,
but yesterday Gardai sources declined to comment on reports that three men
arrested during raids on homes in Limerick on Saturday were linked to the group.

Weapons and ammunition were seized during the raids.

Because of its recruitment of hardliners from other republican factions,
including dissident explosives experts from the Provisionals, security chiefs
fear that CIRA could become the most serious threat to the peace process since
the Good Friday Agreement.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                January 5, 1999

Mercury: Mr Leicester's Diary

SECTION: Mercury: Mr Leicester's Diary, Pg.10

LENGTH: 371 words


25 years ago

nA massive security alert today in and around London's Heathrow Airport was
apparently based on definite information that some sort of terrorist attack may
have been imminent. It is understood that the troop movements were much more
than a "dry run" exercise, as first thought. The Home Secretary, Mr Robert Carr,
was being kept in touch with developments. Earlier, a Scotland Yard spokesman
described the operation as "part of contingency plans prepared to deal with
emergencies." West Drayton police station, near Heathrow, is being used as a
nerve centre for the present operation. Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir
Robert Mark was there early this morning together with other senior Scotland
Yard officers.

nSome of Britain's key firms were ending the first three-day week today by
studying reports that they might be forced into even shorter time. An employers'
association spokesman said there was a threat that some industries might have to
go onto two-day weeks if reports of shortages in steel were correct. The
spokesman, for the West Midlands Engineering Employers' Association said the
situation was already serious.

50 years ago

nSixty-six people were trapped when a double-decker Midland Red bus skidded on
the icy surface, collided with a Corporation vehicle and overturned on Melton
Road, Leicester, near the BTH factory early today. Scores of passengers, most of
them on their way to the BTH, were injured and ladders were used to get them
out. The driver, Mr C L Wale, of Melbourne Road, Leicester, was rescued by
pedestrians as he hung upside down in his cabin. The Royal Infirmary nursing and
medical staffs faced their greatest emergency test since the war.

nBilly, the black and white terrier pet of Mr A R Andrew, senior representative
of Zenobia Ltd, the Loughborough firm of perfume manufacturers, to whom has been
ascribed the remarkable ability of being able to answer problems of simple
arithmetic, is due to make his first stage appearance at a works' concert
tonight. By means of distinctive barks, Billy can count up to 18 and subtract
from figures up to nine. The terrier is to be featured in a BBC programme
shortly and he has also attracted the interest of newsreel cameramen.

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              102 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 7, 1999, Thursday

Yemen delays Yard inquiry into kidnap

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 731 words


British and US police are being hampered by authorities, reports Daniel McGrory
from Sanaa.

FOUR Scotland Yard detectives were struggling last night to carry out their
investigation into the group behind the kidnapping of 16 Western tourists as
Yemeni authorities continued to hinder their inquiries.

The Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad officers and ten FBI agents are being followed
everywhere they go in the Yemeni capital. They are forbidden to talk to people
about the kidnappings by the al-Jihad group or the series of bomb plots
uncovered in Yemen.

The FBI and Yard teams must spend most of the day in their hotel and inform
Yemen's Political Security Organisation of their whereabouts at all times. Local
security chiefs fear that the detectives may uncover links with international
terrorist groups that are rumoured to have connections to Yemen.

Diplomats were demanding last night that Sanaa keep its original promise to let
the investigators question Abu Hassan, the leader of the kidnap gang, whom
authorities plan to execute soon.

They also want to see three men arrested in Aden, who are alleged to have
confessed to plotting bomb attacks on a series of targets there, which included
the British Consulate and an Anglican church.

Yemeni officials say that two of the men, of Pakistani origin, had planned the
bombings of five American and British targets from their base in London.

All three claim to be British citizens. British diplomats want to check the UK
passports which the three had used to enter Yemen, but have still not seen the
documents, nor been able to talk to them.

There were a series of urgent meetings in Sanaa yesterday to try to rescue the
inquiry into who funded and trained the kidnappers and the alleged bombers, and
the links believed to exist between the two groups.

One excuse given by Yemeni authorities for not allowing the police to see Hassan
is that the 28-year-old refuses to talk to the Yard.

The strained relations with Whitehall worsened yesterday after two detectives
were expelled from Aden, and there are hints that Britain may impose diplomatic
sanctions against Yemen. These could include a ban on visas for travel and a cut
in aid and investment.

Diplomats expressed concern last night for a party of 12 British tourists who
had ignored Foreign Office advice and were travelling along the road on which
Hassan staged his ambush.

Yemeni authorities withdrew military escorts from touring parties even after the
discovery of the bomb plot in Aden on December 23, five days before the kidnap.

There is also growing irritation at how the Yemenis are conducting the hunt for
the escaped kidnappers. Security forces did not raid Hassan's home village until
five days after the botched hostage rescue.

Tribesmen from the village of al-Hajer, 180km north of Aden, said that known
associates of Hassan left their hideouts in the mountains of Shabwa province
hours after the surviving hostages had been freed. Security sources in Aden said
that they had rounded up "a considerable number of suspects", but refused to say
how many.

They also claimed to have closed al-Jihad's main training camp at Hatat, but
residents of the remote mountain town said that there had been no raid. Scotland
Yard officers in London said that they did not know how long they were prepared
to allow their detectives to stay in Yemen.

As efforts continued last night to repair the rift with Sanaa, the Labour MP
Keith Vaz said that a senior Cabinet figure should visit Yemen to resolve the
crisis.

Mr Vaz, who was born in Aden, said that he would be willing to go to Sanaa to
help to obtain permission for the Yard officers to conduct their inquiry.

* PUPILS APPLAUD HOSTAGE SURVIVOR

Sue Mattocks, 43, one of the surviving hostages, was applauded by pupils
yesterday on her first day back at Clarendon House Girls' Grammar School in
Ramsgate, Kent, where she is head of religious studies. She was one of the first
teachers in school for the start of the day and was given permission to take
assembly. Jane Bennett, the head teacher, said: "She spoke about her time in the
Yemen and how she was glad to be back. She also asked us to remember that there
were four families in grief." Becky Gosden, 15, one of pupils, said: "She is one
of the best teachers at school. It is great to have her back."


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            January 8, 1999, Friday

MONARCHY HELPS TO KEEP STABLE COUNTRY

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1878 words


Goodwill: The Queen during a walkabout in Castle Vale. See lead letter and
following views.

Sir, - Selly Oak MP Dr Lynne Jones in wanting to rid the UK of the monarchy has
not thought the consequences through.

A monarch ensures stability to a democracy. We know the strengths and weaknesses
of our monarch.

If the democratic vote was in favour of abolishing the monarchy the minority
would be almost certain to show their disapproval in anarchy.

Such action would result in a second civil war or terrorist activities similar
to those of the IRA.

Is that what Dr Jones wants?

Socrates's words are just as relevant today as they were over 2,000 years ago.
"It is better to remain silent and be thought a fool than to open your mouth and
thereby remove all doubt."

JOHN RICE

Cofton Hackett,

Birmingham.

Go and live

in a republic

Sir, - On Tuesday, December 29, you published an interview by your correspondent
Paul Aston, with Dr Lynne Jones, the Labour MP for Selly Oak, on the monarchy.

She believes a war should be declared on the Royal Family, as the next logical
step after reforming the House of Lords.

From Eigberht in 802, we have had a king or queen as a monarch, almost unbroken
to the present day. It is an institution which is so important, and is part of
the fabric of this country, which does make us different from most other
nations.

What weapons or means would Dr Jones use in her war? - emotive words even for an
outspoken MP.

Are we to become a republic?

Are we to subside as an insignificant state within Euroland when regional
differences and cultures over a period of time will be merged into one? I hope
not; I don't look forward to an Orwellian age.

Dr Jones's proposals fail on at least three major points.

First, economically; the cost of the Royal Family is far outweighed by the
benefits to this country in tourism alone.

Secondly, the Royal Family traditionally, is outside politics, is not elected,
and therefore provides the continuity and stability we enjoy.

Thirdly, the store of goodwill created by the visits of various members of the
Royal Family all over the world, could never be equated by Dr Jones's Head of
State.

From the smallest village in India or Africa to state occasions, the work of the
Princess Royal, for example, creates enormous local and lasting interest. I
wonder how many would turn out to greet Dr Jones?

The Commonwealth is made up of every colour and creed; some countries are
debating whether to leave it, others have rejoined; What would take its place?

Like so many of the Labour Government's proposals, they lack credibility, are
insubstantial, because they have not been thought through, taken history into
account, or given the electorate any idea of what would take its place.

Dr Jones is typical of the dogmatic MPs, who want to change almost everything;
if she prefers a republic, then I suggest she goes and lives in one. I am
staying put.

ROSS BELLAMY

Edgbaston,

Birmingham.

Let's cull a few

MPs as well

Sir, - Sack Royals when her majesty dies declared someone called Lynn Jones, who
is an MP (Post, Dec 29).

Using the hiatus of the monarch's death would be a good and opportune time to
cull the House of Commons as well.

Britain has too many MPs. Far more than the American Senate and House of
Representatives put together. Far more than are required to govern a nation of
about 50 million.

This country could be adequately represented by 350 MPs. It should be considered
that as more actual sovereign power and law making devolves to Brussels and to
unelected judges there is less need and justification for massive
over-representation at Westm inster.

If we get an elected Upper Chamber this should consist of no more than 150
members.

This, combined total of 500 representatives divided between two chambers and
elected on a revolving and staggered term system would be cheaper, more
representative and would permit a more focused and informed number of MPs and
Lords.

This would stimulate competition for selection and so weed out some of the low
-calibre candidates currently making law and costing us millions.

GREVILLE WARWICK

Kenilworth,

Warwickshire.

Cash goes to

those with plenty

Sir, - The unseemly battle over who pays the aged and chronically sick,
continues unabated between NHS and the local government Social Services
Department, while politicians at national and local levels refuse to grasp and
relocate scarce resources.

The National Lottery tax ("a tax on fools" said Doctor Samuel Johnson)
distributes largesse to the minority interests - usually to the already
educationally, culturally and materially well-endowed; while the powerless in
society go without, or are requir ed to pay even higher charges, as in
Worcestershire, for inadequate social services provision.

A malleable Secretary of State for Health agreed to the building of a
centrally-located Public Finance Initiative General Hospital, causing even worse
services in the densely populated industrial areas of North Worcestershire; this
pounds 100 million-plu s PFI venture will, in due course, provide even fewer
beds for the county's sick, when causing a burden on revenue of up to pounds 25
million, at the expense of patient care.

That sick 80 year-old ex-servicemen should be expected to provide round the
clock care to wives suffering incontinence among other distressing complaints, I
find deplorable. Confidentiality forbids me to go into detail.

Men, and women too, who spent years of their youth in harsh war-time situations,
poorly paid, fed and clothed, in order to defend our precious freedoms.

Coming home to their families, living in rooms for years before raising a
deposit for a home of their own, or the rare council house tenancy.

Working all hours, often in harsh conditions all their lives, paying their taxes
and local council tax when supporting their families.

Now, in old age, subject to humiliation, even degradation, at the hands of an
ungrateful so-called society.

More powerful groups do rather better.

I read that no less than pounds 17,600 per year is spent on each HIV/Aids
patient in medical care, drugs and propaganda aimed at brainwashing ordinary
people into believing that sexual perversion is "normal, natural and healthy",
yet only pounds 11,000 p er year can be afforded to an organisation devoted to
the care of 250 stroke victims.

Here in Redditch, no grant is to be given to Age Concern yet a Borough Council
can afford to run a theatre.

The last figures I inspected gave a pounds 3,000 per week subsidy to this
minority interest, an establishment, needless to say, that enjoys the backing of
powerful, faceless Socialist intellectuals, who really run the nation.

Yet most councils, in theory at least, support the principles of corporate
management: "A more moral, intelligent and economic utilisation of resources,
through the setting of objective priorities of expenditure." Who is kidding who?

Coun C T WAREING

Redditch,

Worcestershire.

Zionism and

Gulf conflict

Sir, - Most Jews do not support the action of the Israeli government and are
indifferent to Zionists. Yet the Zionists control the foreign policy of the
world's mightiest nation, the USA.

It is in such a light that the continuing conflict in the Gulf must be viewed.

Iraq invaded Kuwait after being given the green light by April Glaspie, the then
American ambassador to Iraq.

Iraq's claim to Kuwait is much stronger historically and legally than that of
the Zionists to the land of the Palestinians or that of Turkey to northern
Cyprus. The real aim of the US and British ruling classes is to destroy and
subjugate the Iraqi peopl e.

Saddam Hussein may be a bad man (I doubt if he is any worse than Bill Clinton or
Tony Blair) but he is a convenient smokescreen.

The West does business with tyrannies in China, Saudi Arabia, Syria, Indonesia,
etc, etc. Human rights are in the way of the the West's New World Order.

International Zionism would not be safe with true democracy in Arab countries.
It is only happy with dreadfully corrupt regimes like the ruling royal family in
Saudi Arabia.

In the eyes of the US and Britain, Saddam Hussein is a threat not because he is
a tyrant but because he is not a puppet to the New World Order sweeping across
the globe.

Wm D SANFORD

Birmingham.

End discrimination

against smokers

Sir, - The dawn of a new year provides an opportunity to bring forward ways in
which smokers can be accommodated and the discrimination against one-in-three of
our fellow citizens ended.

We could make a start by rejecting policies which lead to the social exclusion
of smokers and replace them with efforts to develop harmonious co-habitation
between courteous smokers and tolerant non-smokers.

The 20th century has witnessed some of history's worst examples of prejudice and
intolerance.

So let us not end it by institutionalising the discrimination against smokers.
Let the approaching new millennium spur on our efforts to foster a climate of
tolerance towards this country's 15 million adult smokers.

MARTIN BALL

Forest.

Computer experts

have failed us all

Sir, - As a professionally qualified engineer who, amongst other things, is busy
in the market place of project management, I have to raise a smile at the
potential effects which are likely to be caused by the so called Millennium Bug
as reported but not often attempted to be explained by most responsible
newspapers.

For at least a decade this problem has been known and discussed, so why is the
problem so bad as currently reported?

Logically, with the ever-increasing speed and power of computers complemented by
the decreasing size of hardware, one would expect that most companies over this
period have either purchased new or have implemented a major refurbishment to
their hardware and software systems.

Based upon this premise, where was the planning by the purchaser? Indeed, where
was the planning by the so called computer experts, or was it in part
deliberate?

A recent report in The Financial Times said the cost to Europe and the USA alone
had risen to pounds 508bn with just over 50 per cent already spent. Of the total
cost some 55-60 per cent was quoted as labour cost. In the words of a popular TV
comedyseri es "what a nice little earner".

While, thank goodness, I'm not a computer expert or a so-called big business
leader, it seems to me that these people have failed miserably in not only
solving the problem but indeed coming to terms with same. A problem in my line
of work that is not sol ved very quickly becomes an employment threat.

Am I correct in this assumption or am I being too logical in my approach due to
my engineering background?

I would welcome being corrected or even berated for my ignorance on the subject
but if so, please enure that within the dialogue there is included a paragraph
or two which describes in computer laymen terms as to why the problem has
dragged on for so lon g and is threatening the services so essential to a modern
western society.

J W CRESSWELL

Studley, Warwickshire.

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              104 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 8, 1999, Friday

Cape Muslims threaten Blair visit

BYLINE: Sam Kiley

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 749 words


Protesters enraged by Iraq airstrikes vow disruption while leaders strengthen
ties, Sam Kiley writes.

HUNDREDS of South African Muslims burnt the Union Jack outside the British High
Commission in Cape Town yesterday and pledged to disrupt Tony Blair's visit to
the "Mother City" after being dispersed with stun grenades and teargas.

Protesting at the American and British airstrikes against Iraq, the
demonstrators waved banners and screamed "one Blair, one bullet" - an adaptation
of the apartheid-era protest slogan "one settler, one bullet".

Other placards read "United States, United Kingdom, United Terrorists" and
"Blair - Blood on his hands". Armoured trucks were beaten with sticks as police
fired teargas and stun grenades to force the crowd away from the High
Commission, which stands opposite the South African Parliament where Mr Blair is
to speak today.

The group behind the demonstration, Muslims Against Global Oppression, allegedly
took responsibility for the bombing of the Planet Hollywood restaurant in Cape
Town shortly after the US air raids on Afghanistan and Sudan last year. Two
people were killed and five British holidaymakers from the same family were
injured in the blast.

The police said yesterday that forensic science experts had found similarities
between the Planet Hollywood device and a recent car bomb which injured two
people on the Cape Town Waterfront marina on New Year's Day. Members of Mr
Blair's entourage will be staying there during the Prime Minister's short visit
to the Cape.

"We are not taking any chances at all," a police spokesman said. "There could
not be any greater security for Mr Blair's visit."

But yesterday the demonstrators were able to force their way into central Cape
Town after being denied permission to march, and burn the Union Jack along with
the flags of Israel and the US.

In Johannesburg, meanwhile, Mr Blair gave Thabo Mbeki, heir apparent to
President Mandela, a ringing endorsement before elections later this year. The
Prime Minister backed his belief that South Africa was on the right course with
a 40 per cent boost in British aid and a pledge to support South Africa in
Europe.

Mr Blair's praise for Mr Mbeki, the Deputy President, and the policies of the
African National Congress Government, were also aimed at reassuring whites that
Mr Mandela's retirement this year will not the end of the policy of
reconciliation.

"Because of (Mr Mbeki) and his leadership qualities I have great confidence for
the future here," Mr Blair said. Their often jocular joint press conference
signalled the beginning of a special relationship amid pledges to co-operate
closely on solutions to African conflicts as well as Iraq.

In recent speeches, Mr Mbeki has emphasised the vast gap in the average incomes
of black and white South Africans, and given a warning of a growing "rage" among
blacks that this has not been closed five years after the end of white rule.

Mr Blair announced an extra Pounds 90 million in aid to help bridge the gaps
between basic services to the races. "The new Government has made huge strides
since 1994. But transformation is far from complete. Britain is committed to
strengthening its support for South Africa's efforts to overcome the legacy of
apartheid," he said. "We have done this because we believe it is a good
investment for the future."

The Prime Minister added that he thought the South African Government was
"taking the right measures" to combat spiralling crime. Few South Africans would
agree. As Mr Blair spoke, and hours before he was to visit a women's support
group in the impoverished black township of Alexandra, news of a double rape and
murder was being broadcast.

Later in Alexandra, on the outskirts of Johannesburg, Mr Blair announced Pounds
2 million in support for programmes aimed at preventing violence against women.
South Africa experiences high levels of physical and sexual abuse of women, and
has the world's highest rate of reported rape.

The two leaders also discussed talks between the European Union and South Africa
on a free-trade agreement. But Mr Blair was not able to persuade Mr Mbeki to
sign a deal worth billions of pounds to South Africa. Agreement has been held up
over Pretoria's insistence that domestically produced sherry and port should be
marketed in Europe as such. European commissioners have insisted that these
products must be marketed as "fortified wines" in line with EU laws.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 9, 1999

Two Britons held in Yemen 'shot';
Fears voiced by families discounted by embassy

BYLINE: JAMIE WILSON

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words


CONFUSION surrounded the fate of five Britons under arrest in the Yemen last
night after the men's families claimed two had been shot. The claim was
immediately discounted by British embassy officials.

Rashad Yaqoob, a solicitor and spokesman for the families, said their relatives
in Yemen heard of the shootings from local security officers. "We do not know
the extent of the shooting, or the extent of injuries," he said.

Britain's consul general in Aden, David Pearce, said: "I have just spoken to the
Aden head of security. If there had been a shooting, he would have told me. Our
ambassador has spoken to the interior minister, and he did not mention a
shooting.

"I am as confident as I can be that this report is not correct. I cannot see
there being an element of truth in it."

The men are being held in connection with an alleged plot to bomb targets in
Aden, including the British consulate, an Anglican church, and a hotel that
caters for Western tourists.

The Foreign Office said there were six Britons but the families had details of
only five, who they said were visiting on British passports to see relatives,
learn Arabic and study Islam. They named them as Mohsin Ghalain, aged 18 from
London, Shahid Butt, aged 33, Malik Harhra, aged 26, Samad Ahmed, aged 21, all
from Birmingham, and Ghulam Hussein, aged 25, from Luton, Bedfordshire. A sixth
man on a French passport, Lebourdice James, aged 30, is also believed to be in
custody. It is understood at least two of the men knew each other, but they had
travelled out independently.

Yemeni authorities suspect the men are also linked to the gang that kidnapped 16
tourists last month, four of whom died during a rescue attempt. Monica Davis,
aged 24, wife of Mr Hussein, said he was a security guard who had nothing to do
with terrorism. Her husband, of Pakistani descent, had gone ahead to Yemen and
she was planning to join him for a holiday with their daughter during Ramadan.

Mr Yaqoob said that, according to a charge sheet, the men are accused of
"causing chaos" in Aden.  He said the families had been told they would face
trial today, and if found guilty, could be executed immediately.

However, Mr Pearce said this was unlikely while the holy month of Ramadan had 10
days to run. He said that he hoped his attempts to see the men would succeed
last night or this morning.

The Yemeni embassy in London yesterday issued a statement saying action had been
taken after it became evident the men were planning terrorist acts; they were
arrested on December 24 and 27 but the kidnapping of the tourists explained the
delay in informing the British embassy. "With regard to those detainees who are
holding British passports, the British consul in Yemen as well as the officers
from Scotland Yard are allowed to visit them whenever they wish," the statement
added.

The embassy said anyone charged would receive "a fair and open trial".

Rashid Butt, brother of one of those arrested, said: "It is just crazy - the
charges are absolute rubbish. The Yemeni government are trying to push this as
quickly as possible and if these men face trial and are found guilty, they will
be executed."

An Amnesty International spokesman said it was concerned about the men's
welfare. "We have asked the Yemeni authorities for assurances they will not be
ill treated or tortured, but have had no response yet."

Meanwhile, after negotiations involving the British ambassador, Scotland Yard
detectives are to be allowed to continue investigating the killing of four of
the 16 tourists, and will visit the sites of the kidnap and the shoot-out.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              106 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 10, 1999, Sunday

Cook acts on Yemeni detainees

BYLINE: BY LIZ CHONG

SECTION: NEWS; Page 12

LENGTH: 419 words


ROBIN COOK, the Foreign Secretary, yesterday demanded full consular access to
five British citizens detained in Aden on charges of sabotage.  In a telephone
conversation, Mr Cook told the Yemeni Prime Minister Abdul- Karim al-Iryani
Britain needed to be reassured that the five men, who are of Pakistani and
Yemeni origin, were well and being held in good conditions.

Mr Cook said that he had received a "very positive response" from Mr al-Iryani.

British Consul-General David Pearce saw three of the men late on Friday.
Although relatives have claimed that two of the detainees had been shot at while
in jail, Mr Pearce said that he had not found proof of this and that the men he
visited looked "reasonably well". He was unable to see the other two because of
"bureaucratic problems"- one detainee has joint British and Yemeni nationality
while the other has a problem with his passport.

The five are accused of belonging to a Western sabotage group which is linked to
an alleged militant Islamic group that kidnapped 16 Western tourists on 28
December. Three British tourists and one Australian were killed a day later in a
controversial rescue attempt by the Yemeni army.

The men were arrested in Aden on Christmas Eve. The Interior Minister Hussein
Mohammad Arab announced last week that eight people had been arrested, but a
Foreign Office spokeswoman said yesterday that only six arrests had been made -
the other detainee is a French national.

The six are also being questioned about alleged plots to bomb targets in Yemen,
including the British consulate.

Relatives said that they were told that the group would be tried yesterday, but
Mr Pearce said that a trial is not imminent, as the Muslim holy month of Ramadan
does not end until 18 January.

If convicted, the men could face the death penalty. Amnesty International has
expressed concern that the men could be mistreated because of the nature of
their alleged crimes.

Late last year, the Yemeni army newspaper claimed that Britain was harbouring
militants who were involved in a number of bombings in which several people were
wounded or killed. It said that the terrorists had staged their attack from
London.

Hundreds of supporters staged a demonstration yesterday outside the Yemeni
embassy in London, calling for the Britons to be freed.

The detainees' families said that they had visited Yemen to learn Arabic, study
Islam and see their relatives, a normal practice in the month of Ramadan.


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 10, 1999

Yemen kidnap 'linked with' London group

BYLINE: BY BRIAN WHITAKER, MARTIN BRIGHT AND ALAN GEORGE

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 579 words


AN EXTREME Islamist group based in London is emerging as the key to both the
kidnapping of British tourists in Yemen and the arrest of five Britons accused
of involvement in a bomb plot there.

Senior Yemeni officials say the group, called Supporters of Shariah (SOS), is
linked to both the kidnap gang and the five Britons from Birmingham who were
arrested in Aden just days before the the Explore Worldwide group was seized on
December 28.

The claim came as the crisis over western hostages in Yemen deepened last night,
with the kidnapping of another Briton, John Brooke, 46, an oil worker with a
United States company. He was apparently snatched from a compound near Marib, in
north Yemen.  His wife Katherine said the kidnappers cut a hole in the compound
fence to take him.

SOS is led by 'Abu Hamza', a handless imam at Finsbury Park mosque, north
London. His son Mustapha is being sought by the Yemeni authorities. They claim
Mustapha was part of the bomb plot but heard about the arrests and fled.

Hamza - who was disabled during the Afghan war - admitted that the kidnappers'
leader had called him by satellite phone on the day the Explore Worldwide
tourists were seized. Yesterday he conceded that his son was missing.  He had
last seen him two-and-a-half weeks ago.  Mustapha told him he was leaving
Britain to study Islam in Saudi Arabia.

Although the families of the Birmingham men insist their sons are innocent
Arabic scholars from religious families, senior Yemeni government officials say
they were 'involved in training Yemenis how to make bombs', and had brought a
training video 'showing how to booby-trap door locks and light switches'.

They also claim that the men had videos in their baggage produced by SOS. SOS -
which backed the bombing of the US embassies in Africa last year and other
terrorist actions - is alleged by the Yemeni authorities to have been involved
in funding terrorism in Yemen.

Hamza denied that the group funded bomb-making activities, and said he was not
sure whether the young men arrested in Yemen were among his 'students'.

While there is no independent evidence to corroborate the claimed link between
the Birmingham men and the kidnappings - or indeed to Hamza's group - the
allegations about SOS will fuel the diplomatic row between Britain and Yemen
over the death of the British hostages in a gun-fight and the arrest of the
Birmingham men.

For their part, the Yemenis have accused Britain of harbouring terrorists.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook intervened in the row yesterday by telephoning
Yemeni Prime Minister Dr Abd al-Karim al-Iryani to 'underline the seriousness'
with which the affair is regarded here.

The five arrested Britons were named yesterday as Mohsin Ghalain, 18, Shahid
Butt, 33, Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, Sanad Ahmad, 21, and Ghulam Hussein, 25.
Their families demonstrated yesterday outside the Yemeni embassy in London.

An innocent explanation of their plight may be that, through their interest in
Islam, they made contact accidentally with extremists. Such a thing has happened
before.

SOS literature says the group was formed in 1994, uniting Muslims working 'under
many other names in various parts of the world'.

Further questions about Hamza's role in the UK will be raised by the disclosure
that SOS organised a camp at Finsbury Park Mosque over Christmas. This included
'military training for brothers'.

Disaster in Yemen, page 13


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              108 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 12, 1999, Tuesday

How the shifting sands of Yemen are causing confusion in Whitehall

BYLINE: By John Davison and Eric Watkins

SECTION: NEWS; Page 3

LENGTH: 812 words


YEMEN, situated on the southern tip of the Arabian peninsula, has been one of
the world's most strategically important places since the days of the spice
trade. Always a hotbed of rumour and political intrigue, every twist in the
current crisis of hostages and plots is again commanding close international
attention.

Yesterday the story of five British detainees accused of terrorist activity came
down to claim and counter claim between the Yemeni government and the
representatives and families of those being held.

The British government was also directing its efforts to trying to secure the
safe release of John Brooke, the latest hostage to be taken in the country.

Egypt and Saudi Arabia have long accused Britain of being a centre for terrorist
opposition to their regimes. Could they now have the proof they have been
looking for?

Links established between the detainees, the hostage-taking group and a
London-based organisation suggest this could prove to be so.

On the other hand, suspicion still exists that the Yemen government could be
using the situation to side-step its responsibility for the bungled hostage
rescue and subsequent deaths last month.

Of the detainees, one is said to have made a detailed confession of involvement
in a plot to bomb British targets in Aden over Christmas. He has also allegedly
confirmed links between the plot and the Islamic group led by Abu Hassan,
responsible for the kidnapping of 16 Westerners which resulted in four being
shot dead on 29 December.

But then there are claims by three of the men to the local British consul
general that they had been tortured. Their families have maintained that none of
them has had any involvement in terrorism.

Behind all this are the shifting sands of Middle East power-broking, with
implications that include the campaign by Western governments against Saddam
Hussein's regime in Iraq and the Saudi dissident, Osama bin Laden.

Supporters and relatives of the detained men are claiming racism and
incompetence against the Government's handling of their cases. If the claims of
torture are upheld and the men are released, allegations that more could and
should have been done for them sooner will intensify.

But if the men do go the trial and some or all are found guilty then the
problems will double. Any found guilty would be condemned to death, and a huge
campaign for their release would be certain among the Muslim community in
Britain.

Britain's position would be badly damaged by the revelation that a plot to bomb
British targets abroad had been organised in this country and involved British
citizens, apparently protesting at the British involvement in the bombing of
Iraq.

If links between the British men and the Aden-Abyan Islamic Army, led by Abu
Hassan, which carried out the kidnappings last month, were established then the
Yemeni government could effectively deflect any criticism of its handling of the
affair.

Samad Ahmed, 21, of Birmingham, said he had been hung upside down and beaten;
Shahid Butt, 33, also of Birmingham, said he had been blindfolded, his feet
beaten and a confession extracted; Mohsin Ghalain, 18, of London, reported he
had been repeatedly hit during his first week in detention, and was said to be
suffering from liver problems.

The claims are consistent with past human rights abuses reported in the country.
Amnesty International, in its last report on Yemen in 1997, outlined the same
torture techniques among a long list which also included electric shocks,
burning with cigarettes and victims being walked on while lying naked on
concrete.

All torture is theoretically banned under Yemeni law. The country is also a
signatory to most human rights treaties.

The Amnesty report, however, stated: "Suspected political opponents to the
government and critics of the state are frequently targeted for arbitrary arrest
and administrative detention, which is invariably followed by lengthy
incommunicado detention, during which detainees are denied access to families
and lawyers. Such conditions have facilitated the systematic use of torture."

Against this is the claim from Yemeni authorities that Mr Ghalain had given a
full confession at the weekend, allegedly admitting to being paid $ 2,000
(pounds 1,600) to bomb the British Consulate in Aden, the Anglican church there
and the city's biggest tourist hotel.

He is also said to have admitted having two meetings with Abu Hassan.  Security
sources in Yemen say Mr Ghalain got explosives and weapons from Abu Hassan to
carry out the campaign.

Four days after the British group were arrested, Abu Hassan's organisation
carried out the kidnapping of the 16 tourists which ended so tragically.  Yemeni
government sources have said that the release of the British group was the main
ransom demand.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              109 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 12, 1999, Tuesday

London imam is blamed

BYLINE: By Andrew Buncombe

SECTION: NEWS; Page 3

LENGTH: 494 words


A MOSQUE in north London and its imam are emerging as central to the affair of
the Yemeni hostages and the five Britons arrested as suspected terrorists.

A son and a stepson of the Egyptian-born imam, Sheikh Abu Hamza, have been named
by Yemeni authorities as being part of an alleged plot to blow up Western
targets in Yemen, including the British consulate.

One of the sons, Mustapha, is being sought by the Yemeni authorities, who say he
fled after learning he was being hunted. Sheikh Hamza's stepson, Mohsen Ghailan,
is being held with four other Britons by officials in Aden who believe they have
uncovered a terrorist plot.

Last night, Sheikh Hamza, who lost his hands and the sight of one eye while
defusing a mine in Afghanistan, where he was an Islamic fighter, said: "I am
convinced he has been tortured to admit to things he has not done. I am waiting
to see a picture of him."

He had not seen Mustapha for at least six weeks when he left Britain to travel
to Saudi Arabia to pursue his Islamic studies.

But Sheikh Hamza's links to the affair go further than that. Operating from the
North London Central Mosque in Finsbury Park, or from his home in west London,
Sheikh Hamza, 41, runs an organisation called Supporters of Shariah that acts as
a mouthpiece for a range of Islamic groups, including some that have turned to
terror. He spreads the word of jihad with a vitriolic website, pamphlets and
training courses for radicals.

The sheikh, who also uses the name Hamza al-Masri, confirmed yesterday that when
the 16 tourists were kidnapped on 28 December, he received a satellite phone
call from the kidnappers' leader, Abu Hassan, who said he had taken them to put
"pressure on America and Britain to stop the oppression in Iraq and Palestine".
He added: "He said he hoped he would not do it shoot the tourists but make it a
negotiated matter."

Sheikh Hamza makes no apologies for acting as a mouthpiece for groups that use
violence. "We speak for all different Islamic groups if we think they are
justified in using force in the fight for Islam. We don't care what other people
think of them."

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch yesterday confirmed that it was "aware" of
Sheikh Hamza, but declined to elaborate.

Other Muslims are also concerned. A local who used to use the Finsbury Park
mosque said it had been "taken over" by the sheikh. At the nearby Muslim Welfare
House, which also doubles as a mosque, a receptionist said they refused to stock
Sheikh Hamza's pamphlets. "We do not agree with his views," he said.

Sheikh Hamza and his friends paint a different picture. The sheikh says he
studied civil engineering, first in the Egyptian city of Alexandria, and then at
Brighton University in East Sussex. The university was yesterday unable to
confirm he had been a student. The sheikh's associate, Sheikh Omar Bakri
Mohammed, said he provided training for young Islamic scholars.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              110 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 12, 1999, Tuesday

New terror link to Briton held prisoner in Yemen

BYLINE: By Andrew Buncombe, John Davison and Paul Waugh

SECTION: TITLE; Page 1

LENGTH: 436 words


A SON and step-son of a leading Muslim cleric based in London are at the centre
of allegations linking British Islamists to a terror campaign in the Yemen.

The Independent has learnt that Mohsin Ghalain, 18, one of five Britons due to
be charged either today or tomorrow over a plot to blow up Western targets in
the Yemen, is the step-son of Sheikh Abu Hamza, imam at a mosque in north
London. Mustapha Hamza, 17, a son of Sheikh Hamza, is also wanted by the Yemeni
authorities who claim he fled when he learnt he was being hunted.

The revelations follow the statement by the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, in
the Commons yesterday of the imminent moves against the "Birmingham Five" as he
announced the appointment of a new anti-terrorism expert to help free British
hostages abroad.

In his statement, Mr Cook said that Abdul-Karim al-Iryani, Yemen's Prime
Minister, had given his personal assurance that the men would be charged within
the next 48 hours.

The revelations will add to the diplomatic row ensuing between Britain and Yemen
over the five Britons, who were arrested on Christmas Eve for an alleged plot to
attack targets including the British consulate in Aden.

Sheikh Hamza said yesterday he had not heard from Mustapha since he left Britain
six weeks ago, purporting to pursue his Islamic studies in Saudi Arabia. He
added that he believed his step-son had been tortured by the authorities who he
said were trying to force a confession from him. "I am sure they have been
torturing him to make him admit to something he did not do," he said.

Based at the North London Central Mosque in Finsbury Park, Sheikh Hamza runs an
organisation called Supporters of Shariah which acts as a mouthpiece for various
Islamic groups.

Sheikh Hamza was telephoned by Abu Hassan, head of a rebel group who seized 12
British tourists in Yemen, the day they kidnapped them. He said they were acting
in response to British and American action against Iraq.

Dr Iryani had also promised that no force would be used to rescue John Brooke,
the British oil worker kidnapped on Saturday by Yemeni tribesmen, without prior
consultation with the UK.

His pledge follows a letter from the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, demanding that
he ensure that there will be no repeat of the bungled rescue attempt that saw
three British tourists lose their lives in a shoot-out with terrorists last
month.

The families of the British men, Shahid Butt, 33, Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, Samad
Ahmed, 21, Ghulam Hussein, 25, and Mohsin Ghalain, 18, vigorously deny the
allegations against them.


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              111 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                January 13, 1999

Yemeni kidnapper faces death sentence;
 TRIAL TODAY: grieving relatives could help decide fate of gang leader

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 352 words


THE leader of the Islamic kidnap gang which abducted 16 tourists and left three
Britons dead is to go on trial for his life today in a Yemen court.

The grieving families of the Britons killed during a desert shoot-out with
security forces could be asked if they wish to spare the life of Abu Hassan.

He is also accused of training and arming five Britons being held for allegedly
plotting to bomb an international hotel and British consulate in the Middle
Eastern state.

The Yemenis claim that four days after the Britons were arrested in police
raids, 28-year-old Hassan took the tourists hostage in order to barter for the
release of those jailed in Aden.

The lawyer for the five Britons, Salim Basunaid, told The Times: "My fear is
that Abu Hassan's trial will incriminate my clients and yet they still have not
been charged let alone had a chance to explain why they were in Aden."

Mr Basunaid, who has not been allowed to see his clients, has been handed police
files which claim the men confessed to meeting Hassan at his terrorist camp
where they were given TNT explosives and weapons.

The lawyer insists that these confessions were made under torture.

Scotland Yard is investigating claims that the five were sent on their mission
by the London-based religious leader Abu Hamza, head of the extremist Supporters
of Shariah.

The Yard is understood to have joined forces with the FBI to investigate links
between the SOS and the wanted terrorist Osama bin Laden, who is suspected of
funding the London-based organisation from his Afghan base.

It is also believed that four of those being held in Aden are personally linked
to the cleric, including Mohsen Ghailan, who allegedly confessed to receiving
1,200 from SOS to take part in the operation.

Yemeni legal sources say Hassan and two others captured in the disastrous rescue
are certain to face the death penalty if found guilty which, under a new law for
kidnapping, is mandatory.

In Britain, relatives of the British terror suspects yesterday warned of violent
reprisals if the men are eventually tried and executed.


LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              112 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 13, 1999

SHEIK OF FINSBURY PARK

BYLINE: Ross Benson

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1747 words


NEW links emerged yesterday between the five Britons accused of a bomb plot in
Yemen and extremist Islamic groups in the UK.

Militant leader Omar Bakri Mohammed, who once called for the assassination of
John Major, said he knew all five suspects being held in Aden, having met them
at his lectures. He also claimed 'two or three' of the men had gone to Yemen
following instruction from Abu Hamza, whose Supporters of Shariah group
organises military training camps for Moslem 'brothers'. Syrian-born Omar Bakri
has an office in Edmonton, North London, while Abu Hamza, a British citizen, is
based in nearby Finsbury Park. Here we focus on the apparent disturbing links
between Britain and international Islamic terrorism.

SHOULD a thriller-writer sit down and try to create a truly modern villain for
our era of international terrorism, he couldn't do much better than Abu Hamza.
Blind in one eye and with metal claws for hands after losing his own fighting
with the mujahideen in Afghanistan, this shadowy figure is as experienced on the
internet as he once, apparently, was in the old-fashioned art of warfare.

In short Abu Hamza is about the last person you'd expect to bump into in a smart
North London suburb such as Finsbury Park. But that's where he is accused of
organising a bloody war against the West from the mosque where he preaches.

Abu Hamza leads a sinister militaristic organisation called the Supporters of
Shariah which runs a web-site set up to recruit young Moslem men to his radical
cause.

It is this website which is said to have persuaded five British subjects to
journey to the desert killing fields of the Yemen where they now stand accused
of a bomb plot. If convicted they could face death from an executioner's sword.

Abu Hamza may be blind in one eye. But he says he can still see the path he
believes God has chosen for him. It is a violent one, littered with the corpses
of the innocent.

He has called for an Islamic holy war against Britain and the United States and
was in telephone communication with the Yemeni kidnappers of the British
tourists shot last month moments before the deadly gun battle.

He supports Osama Bin Laden, the terrorist leader behind the bombing of the
American embassies in Africa which killed 224 people. He runs military training
camps in Britain which the Yemeni authorities claim are schools for
international terrorism.

And he admits knowing at least two of the prisoners.

The five British men detained in Aden without charge are aged between 18 and 33.

THREE are from Birmingham, one from Luton, the other London. Their friends and
families insist they are innocent of any wrongdoing, that they were in the Yemen
solely to learn Arabic.

The Yemenis tell a very different story indeed. Their country is turning into a
religious battleground and the conflict is now threatening to spread to Britain.

They allege the five British passport holders were involved in a plot to blow up
the British Consulate and the Anglican cathedral in Aden. And they insist that
all have close ties with the Supporters of Shariah.

Indeed the fundamentalist cleric admits that his stepson is called Mohsin
Ghalain - the name of the youngest prisoner. He confirms that his natural son,
Mohammed Kamel Mustapha, 17, who is being hunted by the Yemeni police, may also
be in the country. He says he knows at least two of the prisoners - a
life-threatening claim to make in the circumstances.

And he makes no attempt to distance himself or his organisation from the acts of
terrorism they are alleged to

have been planning.

'It's up to them, it's up to the individual,' he says.

Not even the threat of execution which now hangs over the prisoners seems to
worry him. Death, he says, is not 'a big price to pay for the truth'.

Abu Hamza's campaign to overthrow the government of the Yemen is, he declares, a
jihad, a holy war sanctified by God. He says: 'If they believe in it, if they
know that they do it for the sake of God, and they believe that this will stop
the state terrorism of Britain and America, then it's a triumph.' Abu Hamza, who
holds a degree in civil engineering, was born in Egypt but has been a British
subject since 1985. The Home Office refuses to explain why such an extremist was
allowed into the country. Says a spokesman: 'We don't discuss the status of
individual people - or why they were awarded British citizenship.' His radical
politics soon attracted attention, however, and his activities have been closely
monitored by security services, both in Britain and the Middle East where he is
suspected of contacts with the Yemeni kidnappers and the terror group called the
GIA which is behind the appalling carnage in Algeria that has killed upwards of
100,000 people.

The Supporters of Shariah website gives a frightening insight into the
extremists policies Abu Hamza advocates. One page shows a hand clutching a
grenade. One tract reads: 'The walls of oppression and humiliation cannot be
demolished except in a rain of bullets.' There is an advertisement for the
course of military training including martial arts and map reading which the
group ran over Christmas. It was held at Abu Hamza's mosque which was misspelt
as being in Finnsbury Park.

'Thirty young Moslem men attended and were taught,' says Abu Hamza, 'to become
like military men, to become a soldier.' Another course is reported to have been
held at a secret camp in North Wales. Foreign Secretary Robin Cook says the camp
has been investigated.

'The training provided purports to be about survival and martial arts.

We have not established that there has been any breach of British law carried
out in such training.' Legal or not, the courses nonetheless serve as a fertile
recruiting ground for Islamic terror organisations, as Sheik Omar Bakri Mohammed
admits. A close associate of Hamza, Sheik Bakri is the Syrian-born leader of
al-Muha-jiroun, The Emigrants, another extremist Islamic group based in North
London.

HE SAYS that at the camps in Wales, Moslem youths 'learn how to shoot, to swim,
to ride a horse. They come across the Islamic obligation in the Koran that when
they reach the age of 15, they must get military training. Some of them may be
recruited by mujahideen' (the holy warriors of Islam).

The five arrested men - Shahid Butt, 33, Samad Ahmed, 21, both from Birmingham,
Ghulam Hussein, 25, from Luton, Mohsin Gha-lain, 18, from London, and
Yemeni-born Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, a British passport holder who now lives in
Birmingham - all strenuously deny any connection with Hamza or his training
programmes. As do their families who are urging Robin Cook to press for their
immediate release.

Shahid Butt's brother Rashid, 27, a manager for a Birmingham catering firm,
says: 'Shahid is a big guy (he is 6 ft 5in tall) but his heart is soft.

He even gets upset when he sees a child crying in the street.' Married with four
children, Butt was educated at Highgate School and later studied finance at
Birmingham University. According to Rashid, he went to the Yemen 'to learn
Arabic. He is not interested in fundamentalist politics.'

Monica Davis, 24, is the English wife of Ghulam Hussein. 'We wanted to get away
for the holy month of Ramadan, and he wanted to learn some Arabic,' she says.
'We don't speak Arabic and you really have to live among Arabs to learn the
language properly. We had seen Yemen in holiday brochures before, and we weren't
really aware of the problems there.

We hadn't done a proper background check.' Mrs Hussein, who converted to Islam
when she married her security guard husband five years ago, insists: 'My husband
is not a fundamentalist. He is not politically motivated at all, or even very
active in the Moslem community.

We try to live our lives by the Koran and he prays five times a day and visits
the Noor Mosque in Luton, but he is no fanatic.

'We don't feel the need to join political groups. He wears Western clothes and
doesn't always wear a beard. When he is not working he likes to spend time with
his family.' The family of the other prisoners are equally strident in the
defence of their young men. Like the Hus-seins and the Butts, the Ahmeds
originally hail from Pakistan. But as Samad's brother Waqas points out: 'We are
born and bred Brummies.' Samad studied computing at Kingston University but is
now between jobs. Says Waqas: 'He just told us he had some spare time over the
holidays, and Yemen is a cheap country to visit. He is interested in Islam and
wanted to learn some Arabic, and the Yemeni dialect is as close to classical
Arabic as you get within the modern language. He is interested in Islam and
observed the religion but was far from fundamentalist.' Malik Nassar Harhra, a
26-year-old graduate in Information Technology at Westminster University in
London, was born in the Yemen but came

to Britain when he was two months old and was brought up in Birmingham.

'He had never been back there since then, and now he wanted to learn more about
the country,' says brother Jamal, 29. A friend adds: 'He certainly wasn't a
strict Moslem. He and I used to enjoy nights out together. I shouldn't say it
but he smoked and drank and had a few girlfriends. He was very into
weight-training and boxing but he's a nice guy. He's no fundamentalist.' The
picture they paint is a persuasive one - of well-educated young men brought up
in stable families who had settled well into a society very different to the
ones their parents had left in search of a more prosperous future.

Islamic fundamentalism can exert a deadly appeal, however. It draws on violent
passions, a blind faith in the word of the Prophet and a deep hatred of the West
which has been fuelled in recent months by the Allied bombings of Iraq.

As Hamza told Channel 4 News: 'When the people are told that innocents (in Iraq)
have to be killed, they say they pay for the policy of Saddam. Then you can't
escape the argument that if some innocents in your part are being killed, you
are paying for the policy of Tony Blair.' In the training camps in the hills of
Wales, Hamza's words are being put into savage action. There, young men -
British born and raised - are being taught to discard everything they have
learnt in Britain and embrace the bloody bigotry of Islamic fundamentalism.

The prayers of the families of the five men being held in the Yemen is that they
were not among them.


LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              113 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     January 13, 1999, Wednesday Edition 2

Mystery on terror bomb charges

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 168 words


   Claims that five Britons held in the Yemen have been charged with terrorist
offences were today denied by British officials.

The Yemeni Ambassa-dor to London said the charges included "bombing in Yemen"
and connections to the gang who kidnapped a party of 16 western tourists in
December.

But the British Ambass-ador in Yemen and the British Consul denied any charges
had been made.

Forced

The five are Mohsin Ghalain, 18, from London, and Ghulam Hussein, 25, from
Luton, and Shahid Butt, 33, Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, Samad Ahmed, 21, all from
Birmingham.

Yesterday a spokesman for their families said the men had been forced to sign
confessions.

Meanwhile, three Islam-ic militants - charged in the kidnapping and murder of
three British tourists, including Durham Univer-sity lecturer Peter Rowe - went
on trial for their lives today amid heavy security.

Their leader Zein Al-Abidine al-Mihdar, 28, proclaimed: "I am innocent. I am
just a holy warrior in the name of God."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              114 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 13, 1999

Moslems' revenge warning

SECTION: News, Pg.25

LENGTH: 431 words



RELATIVES of British Moslems arrested as terror suspects in Yemen last night
warned of reprisals if the men are executed as details emerged of links with the
kidnappers of British tourists.

They claimed Foreign Secretary Robin Cook's calls for the men to be charged or
released would be to blame if the men were killed and ''blood on the streets''
would follow their deaths.

Among those held are the stepson of Abu Hamza, leader of London-based group The
Supporters of Shariah, who has admitted talking to the Yemeni kidnappers before
the bloody gun battle in which three Britons died.

Mohsin Ghalain, aged 18, from London, was arrested in Yemen along with Ghulam
Hussein, 25, from Luton, and Shahid Butt, 33, Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, Samad
Ahmed, 21, all from Birmingham, according to relatives of the other prisoners.

And Hamza's 17-year-old son, Mohammed Mustapha, was on the run after escaping
security forces when they pounced on the group last month, the relatives said at
a press conference in a Birmingham mosque.

The militant cleric, whose group apparently organises military training from
London's Finsbury Park Mosque, has called for the violent overthrow of the
Yemeni government.

He had compared killing Britons with the deaths of Iraqis in the bombardment of
Iraq.

But at yesterday's press conference relatives of the prisoners denied the five
were members of The Supporters of Shariah and insisted Mr Cook would be
responsible if they were sentenced to death.

Monica Davis, wife of Ghulam Hussein said: ''It is an illegal case. He is
pushing for a trial and he is going to get our boys executed.''

Accompanied by around 100 supporters at Birmingham's Central Mosque, the
relatives warned that if the men were executed there would be ''blood on the
(British) streets''. Comparing their treatment with that given to the wife of
oil worker John Brooke, the latest Briton to be snatched in the lawless Middle
Eastern state, the relatives accused officials and diplomats of racism.

Spokesman Rashad Yaqoob said it was ''appalling'' that Foreign Office officials
had not contacted the families directly.

He claimed campaigners seeking the men's release had information from Yemeni
sources that they had been made to sign false confessions.

Britain's consul general in Aden, David Pearce, has met four of the suspects but
was still trying for permission to visit Malik Nassar Harhra. And although the
Foreign Office hopes any charges will be brought ''fairly soon'' a spokesman
admitted they had no guidance on what form they might take.


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              115 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 15, 1999, Friday Edition 2

Terrorist threat to Ulster peace

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 227 words


   Dissident Republican terror groups are posing a real threat to the Northern
Ireland peace process, the chief constable of the RUC said today.

Ronnie Flanagan's warning came as police in the Irish Republic carried out
forensic tests on two massive anti-aircraft guns, a machine gun and hundreds of
rounds of ammunition found near Carrickmacross in Co Monaghan, near the south
Armagh border.

He said he believed the breakaway Continuity IRA was planning to extend its
campaign and carry out bomb attacks.

There was nothing to suggest the main terror groups, including the Provisional
IRA, were about to disarm, added Mr Flanagan.

Ulster Unionists said the seizure of the guns, of the type previously used by
the Provisional IRA to attack army helicopters, vindicated their insistence on
decommissioning.

Confirmed

"More and more we are having it confirmed from government sources in South
Africa that we are on the right track and that the greatest mistake made there
was the failure to insist on decommissioning of weapons," said their security
spokesman, Ken Maginnis.

The Soviet made guns, found in plastic tubing in a wall at Blackstaff, were in
very good condition.

Two were DShKs, a heavy weapon, 5ft long and with an effective range of 2
kilometres, believed to have been smuggled into the country from Libya in the
mid-80s.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              116 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 16, 1999
                              Correction Appended

Britons in Yemen 'confess'

BYLINE: Rory Carroll in Aden and Ian Black

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 871 words


Malik Nassar: could face death penalty if convicted

London imam 'sent team out to bomb'

FIVE Britons being held in Aden have allegedly confessed to being sent on a
bombing mission by a London-based Islamic extremist who has called for the
overthrow of the Yemeni government and who could face prosecution under anti
-terrorist laws in this country.

The five Muslims, four of whom were formally charged with being members of an
"armed gang" for the "intention of commiting murders", could face the death
penalty if convicted.

With reports from Yemen alleging Abu Hamza al-Masri, the Egyptian-born imam of
Finsbury Park mosque in London, conspired with the suspects, Scotland Yard was
last night looking at statements he has made.  The case has serious implications
for British-Yemeni relations.

Badr Basunaid, the men's lawyer, was shown weapons and bomb-making equipment
alleged to have been found on them when police raided their hotel room on
December 24. Yemeni officials said the suspects had admitted handling
explosives.

According to Yemeni security sources, Malik Nassar, one of the five, claimed Mr
Hamza's Supporters of Shariah (SOS) group paid pounds 1,200 for their weapons
and explosives training, and that he and three of the accused met the preacher,
a veteran of the war in Afghanistan, in December.

Yemeni officials who leaked the alleged confessions said they were partly
motivated by satellite TV appearances by the men's families defending them as
innocent victims of torture, and by Mr Hamza's calls for holy war.

Moshin Ghalain, aged 18, from London, Shahid Butt, 33, Nassar, 26, and Sarmad
Ahmed, 21, all from Birmingham, were charged at central security headquarters in
Aden. Ghulan Hussein, aged 25, from Luton, was expected to be charged later with
a sixth man who is not British.

A Yemeni newspaper printed pictures of anti-tank mines and LAW rocket launchers
allegedly in the possession of the suspects. It also listed TNT, dynamite and
fuses, satellite phones, computers and SOS videos.

Their trial is not expected to start until Abu al-Hassan, a Yemeni Islamic
extremist who admits ordering his fellow kidnappers to shoot three of 16
hostages abducted to barter for the release of the five accused, has been tried.

Al-Hassan, whose trial was adjourned until next week, may be cited as a witness
or co-defendant in the Britons' trial.

Lawyers are considering offering blood money to relatives of the dead hostages
in exchange for commuting al-Hassan's possible death sentence to life
imprisonment.

In London, Foreign Office officials said Scotland Yard had been sent transcripts
of interviews given by Mr Hamza, whom Whitehall sources yesterday confirmed had
been under surveillance by the security services.

The Crown Prosecution Service would have to decide whether he could be charged
under legislation which makes it an offence to plot terrorist activity abroad.
After years of lobbying by Arab governments, this was passed after last summer's
Omagh bombing and terrorist attacks on the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania,
attributed to the exiled Saudi fundamentalist Osama bin Laden, last thought to
be in Afghanistan.

On Thursday, Yemen's foreign minister, Abdul-Karim al-Iryani, told Robin Cook,
the Foreign Secretary, of his country's "grave concern and unease over practices
against the Republic of Yemen by terrorist groups based in Britain".

Mr Hamza said on Wednesday that militants in Yemen might resort to killing
foreigners without abducting them first if al-Hassan was executed. "I expect
that matters will get worse. If Abu al-Hassan is killed . . . then there may be
killings without kidnappings," he told Qatar-based al-Jazeera television.

British Muslim leaders, concerned that a small number of extremists is tarring
an entire community and that not enough is being done to assist the five
suspects and their families, have requested an urgent meeting with FO ministers.

"We want them to act exactly as they would do in any other case involving
British citizens," Iqbal Sacranie, of the Muslim Council of Britain, said last
night. "Until someone is found guilty one must assume their innocence. We stand
for justice, not for criminal activity. That is the position of the Muslim
community."

The FO said Mr Cook had asked his Yemeni counterpart to ensure access to the
suspects, but Mr Basunaid, the men's lawyer, has not been allowed to see them.

Two have claimed physical abuse while in custody and Mr Basunaid wants a doctor
to examine them.

On Thursday Nassar became the last of the accused to be visited by David Pearce,
Britain's consul-general. At the insistence of Mohammed Turaik, Aden's security
chief, Nassar spoke in Arabic. Asked by Mr Pearce if he had been treated well,
he replied: "Not well, but not tortured or abused at all."

Mr Pearce passed on books and shirts donated by Roger Buruggink, vicar of
Christchurch in Aden, alleged to have been among the men's targets.

The consul said all five men were relaxed during his visit and outwardly
unharmed, though they complained about toilets not flushing, mosquito bites and
faulty light bulbs.

The lesson today, page 13


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 20, 1999

CORRECTION:  IN OUR front page lead, Britons in Yemen 'confess', January 16, we
called Abdul-Karim al-Iryani, Yemen's foreign minister. He has been the prime
minister since April last year.

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 16, 1999, Saturday

Yemen Britons on murder charge

BYLINE: By Andrew Buncombe and Jeremy Cook in Aden

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Page 1

LENGTH: 523 words


THE BRITONS held in Yemen on suspicion of being Islamist terrorists were last
night formally charged with planning to cause "murder, explosions and
destruction".

Four of the five men were charged under article 133 of the Yemeni penal code
which accused them of "association with an armed gang with a criminal plan".
The other Briton was due to be charged imminently.

The men's Yemeni lawyer, Badr Basunaid, said he been allowed to see his clients
when they were charged, the first time he has been able to speak to them since
they were arrested on 23 December.

At a meeting at the Central Security Headquarters in Aden, police showed him at
least one basket containing TNT explosive and evidence of two rockets and
anti-tank grenades. They claimed that these had been found with the five men.

"The four men were brought in and formally charged with being members of an
armed gang and for intending to commit murder in Yemen," Mr Basunaid said.

He said that Mohsen Ghalain, 18, of London, and Shahid Butt, 33, Malik Nassar
Harhra, 26, Samad Ahmed, 21, all of Birmingham, stood handcuffed while the
procedures were carried out. Ghulam Hussein, 25, of Luton, was due to charged
within hours, along with a sixth man, Mr Basunaid added.

The men's British solicitor, Gareth Peirce, said last night she was convinced
her clients had been tortured during their time in prison. Ms Peirce has
demanded that the three Scotland Yard detectives in Yemen, investigating the
murders of three British tourists in December, are not allowed to question her
clients. She said the Home Office had written to her yesterday agreeing to her
request.

The charging of the men comes against a backdrop of growing tension between the
British and Yemeni authorities and an increasing war of words. After reports
which claimed the Britons had confessed that they were sent to blow up Western
targets by a north London Imam, Abu Hamza, the government in Sanaa accused
Britain of harbouring terrorists.

British anti-terrorist sources last night confirmed that while they had "looked
at" Mr Hamza, who is based at the North London Central Mosque in Finsbury Park,
they do not consider him a danger.

Mr Hamza yesterday by claimed on Qatari television that if the three Yemenis
arrested for the tourist killings were executed, there would be more deaths.  "I
expect that matters will get worse. If Abu Hassan the kidnapper's leader is
killed," he said.

Apparently on the strength of this, the Yemeni Prime Minister, Abdul Karim
al-Iryani, expressed his concern to the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, about
"acts of terrorism" by militants based in Britain.

Meanwhile, one of the British tourists murdered in Yemen three weeks ago after
being kidnapped while on an adventure holiday was buried in Edinburgh.

Around 150 friends and relatives of Ruth Williamson, 34, including some of the
surviving Yemen tour party, paid their last respects at the ceremony.  At the
service at Warriston Crematorium, Ms Williamson's uncle, Douglas Main, her
closest surviving relative, recalled her "sense of fun and humour".


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              118 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 17, 1999, Sunday

How I met the sheikh waging a holy war on the world; Gary Finn (left), a convert
to Islam, recalls his interview with the London-based sheikh accused of
co-ordinating terrorist attacks inYemen. Five British citizens have been charged
with intent to cause 'murder, bombing and destruction'

BYLINE: Gary Finn

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 1049 words


STRICTLY speaking, we should not have been there. Two Muslims in a licensed
premises. But Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Misry, or Hamza as he introduced himself, set
the venue for this meeting, the Hilton Hotel in Shepherd's Bush, west London. As
a compromise, we sat on a couch in the lobby which seemed to be the farthest
from the "Bar 'n' Grill".

A young Arab boy, aged perhaps 11 or 12, clutching a mobile phone, accompanied
us. He took up a position on the opposite side of the lobby and stared at me
throughout the meeting.

Hamza is a hulk of a man, well over 6ft tall, his massive frame exaggerated by
his flowing salwar kameez. When I greeted him he proffered a scarred stump to
shake. His left arm was also sheared above the elbow. The disability appears to
be his badge, an article of faith in his war against the kaffirs (non-Muslims);
it is his testament to time spent with the mujahedin in Afghanistan after the
war with the Soviet Union; he told me he was clearing Soviet mines when the
accident happened. It also accounts for why only one of his eyes was fixing me
as his litany poured out; the other is a milky imitation surrounded by scar
tissue.

Despite these rather grotesque features, which may have explained why the
name-tagged sales reps from a conference gave us a wide berth on their way to
the bar, Hamza was genial enough. He spoke quickly and softly, starting as he
clearly meant to go on: "The western media are all liars, you know."

No doubt he would have plenty to say about the media this weekend: Hamza has
been named as the alleged co-ordinator of a terrorist cell intent on bombing
targets in Yemen. The group with which he is said to be linked is sworn to
overthrow the Yemeni government, and five Britons held in Aden were charged on
Friday with planning "murder, explosions and destruction".  Scotland Yard
detectives are said to be examining statements made by Hamza linking him to the
men.

Our meeting, last October, had taken some time to fix up. Before he came under
the glare of publicity last week, as his links to the alleged Yemeni
hostage-takers emerged, Hamza had been restricted to spreading his calls for an
Islamic state in Britain to pamphlets, a website, and e-mailing statements to
Arabic and foreign news agencies.

It was one of these leaflets that I found at the Islamic Cultural Centre at the
Central Mosque, Regent's Park, London, when I was investigating reports of
visits to Britain by Taliban recruitment officers. "Supporters of Shariah", the
umbrella group of shadowy extremist Islamic cells calling for holy war,
co-ordinated by Hamza, seemed to offer a tangible link to the Taliban.

Hamza told me that he might be able to help, but we must meet under strict
conditions: no tape recorders, notes must be made afterwards. After many
mobile-phone calls he agreed - but only because I have converted (or "reverted"
to use the Islamic term) to Islam, because of marriage.

It was an ice-breaker, no more than that, and allowed Hamza's initial suspicions
to be replaced with enthusiasm . . . "How are you getting on with the prayers?
Do you want to borrow a tape? Have you read the Holy Koran yet? What name have
you chosen?" I explained why I had chosen Zakariah Al-Haqq - Al Haqq, one of
Allah's 99 names, is Arabic for "the Truth" - but he grumbled that it sounded
too Pakistani, then launched into a diatribe against Pakistan for being slow in
implementing a Taliban-style state.

Warming to his subject matter, he got on to his favourite topic: jihad - holy
war - against the West, until the United Nations and Nato withdraw from Muslim
affairs.

When will that be? When would jihad stop?

"When everyone is Muslim," was the reply.

This polarised argument is familiar territory. The last time I came across such
vehemence was in Bradford after the 1995 riots, when the Egyptian- linked terror
group Hizb-ut-Tehrir were discovered stirring up the disaffected young Asian
Muslims in the vacuum following the disturbance.

Fundamentally there is no argument with the received word of God in the Koran or
the teachings of his prophet Mohammed, according to Hamza, so why is the West
obsessed with money, greed and cultural imperialism, he asks.

It is a persuasive argument, but behind this reason is a darker agenda - set in
stark relief following the killing of the four tourists in Yemen.  I challenged
his views, outlined in a Supporters of Shariah leaflet, concerning the use of
hostages as a "human shield". His reply was a chilling foretaste of what his
contacts in Yemen would stand accused of carrying out. "Generally, the killing
of civilians is not allowed in Islam," he said. "But in certain conditions it is
allowable, such as if they are being used as a shield against Islam, or jihad,
or even the mujahedin, then in that case, even if they are Muslims, the war must
still go on."

Indeed, Hamza condoned terrorist acts in general, saying it was obligatory for
every Muslim to rise up against non-Muslims. He said his views were justified
because of US aggression, most notably the bombing of Sudan and Afghanistan last
year.

He called that action "haram forbidden terrorism": "It is terrorism used for
nations to be superior over one another for non-godly reasons, for example, in
the name of racism, nationality, tribalism and pride, to impose non-godly
man-made laws which bring about inequity and nudity.  The United Nations and all
the secularist polytheists are using this kind of unlawful terrorism against the
people."

Hamza, who worked as a civil engineer before taking up preaching and activism at
Finsbury Park mosque in north London, sees no way forward other than violent
action, and his contacts are clearly extensive, spreading throughout Yemen,
Egypt, Afghanistan and the Middle East.

Although there was no let-up in his rhetoric, he conceded that, while money was
raised in the UK for furthering the cause abroad, no acts of violence were
planned for mainland Britain.

The mobile phone rang and Hamza's helper held the receiver to his ear.  The
meeting was now over, and as we parted, with him saying he expected to be
followed home by Special Branch, he handed me a leaflet: "Write Your Islamic
Will - Easy Example Provided."


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              119 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 The Observer

                                January 17, 1999

Focus: Vodafone takeover: Other things the British are pretty good at... British
art reveals its true colours;
Forget elitist installations and high concept. The people's painting will be
bright, cheerful, even affordable, writes Richard Brooks Focus: Ordeal in Arden:
On Yemem's death row;
as thefive accused of a bomb plot ponder their fate, mystery over their arrest
is linked to a London mosque

BYLINE: RICHARD BROOKS MARTIN BRIGHT, JONATHON CALVERT, RORY CARROLL, DAVID
CONNETT, ANDY MCSMITH, BURHAN WAZIR, BRYAN WHITAKER AND UNCLE TOM COBBLY

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1131 words


RACING CARS From Grand Prix Formula One cars to Formula Nippon in Japan and
motor sports in the US, most of the world's fastest cars are made of parts
manufactured by British companies.

DOOR LOCKS British conglomerate Williams owns both Chubb and Yale security
businesses, making the UK one of the leading manufacturers of door locks.

AFTER long years of exclusivity and elitism, British art is reaching out to an
audience which favours the cheerful and the - relatively - cheap.

Art shops with snooty proprietors are out, as are pretentious installations and
inexplicable conceptualism.  Instead, galleries are displaying and selling
colourful and accessible works.

Art 99, Britain's biggest contemporary art fair - which opens in Islington,
north London, this week - is full of representational art. 'Colour, optimism and
a feel-good factor are back,' says Charles Asprey of the Asprey Jacques gallery.

THEY FACE a violent death. Those found guilty of terrorism in the Yemen are
blind-folded with hands tied behind their back, made to kneel on the ground and
then killed by a single pistol shot to the back of the neck. It would a barbaric
end to the lives of five young men from ordinary homes in provincial British
cities.

This weekend the five are in separate cells inside Aden's security headquarters,
pondering their fate. Conditions are basic in the vast complex where even the
guards sleep on straw.

The men - who could possibly go on trial as early as next week - communicate
with each other by shouting through the bars of their cells. They complain of
faulty toilets, failing light-bulbs and mosquitos.

CONDOMS Durex is the trade mark of the British firm London International Group
which makes more than a fifth of all condoms used around the world, giving the
UK a leading role in global safe sex.

POP MUSIC From the Beatles to the Spice Girls, the UK is still one the leading
exporters of music for the masses across the globe.

DRUGS The British pharmaceutical industry is one of the most successful in the
world, led by industrial giants such as SmithKline Beecham and Glaxo-Wellcome.
From athritis to cancer, Britain is leading the way with treatments and cures.

AERO-ENGINES Rolls-Royce remains one of the leading players in aero-engines,
supplying more than 300 airlines and more than 130 armed forces.

CHOCOLATE While the Belgians are most celebrated for their chocolate, Cadbury
-Schweppes is one of the world's five biggest suppliers of chocolate and sweets.

PAINTS Half of the world's consumption of paints is accounted for by ICI with
names such as Dulux. ICI has some 60 factories in 26 countries.

ICE-CREAM Believe it or not, this cold island plays a major role in the world's
ice cream industry. Haagen-Dazs, for instance, is owned by Diageo and Unilever
makes ice-cream in 50 countries.

 LONDON INTERNATIONAL GROUP PLC (56%);  LONDY (NASDAQ) (56%);

Back, too, is painting. In December, Chris Ofili became the first painter for 12
years to win the Turner Prize.  And the proponents of 'New Neurotic Realism' -
artists such as Martin Maloney and Dexter Dalwood - use bright colours
reminiscent of Hockney or Matisse.

Furniture stores, restaurants and galleries are tapping into a new public demand
for original art. Habitat sells original paintings from young artists and
limited-edition prints from established ones, including Tracey Emin and Gillian
Wearing.

'It's a way of making art less frightening,' says Habitat's Caroline Brockbank.
'We're also giving artists the chance to be seen by thousands.' The store runs
an art club offering discounts, private views and concessions at major museums
and galleries.

Will Ramsay, who trained as an artist, recently opened two art warehouses in
west London that he calls 'the Oddbins of the art world'. Prices average about
pounds 300.

'People come to us for accessible art for their lounges, halls and bedrooms,' he
says. 'Ten years ago they would buy a reproduction of some famous piece from a
poster shop. Now it's contemporary and original. And the more colourful, the
better they sell.'

Purchasers can 'buy and try', too. 'We'll let people take the piece home for a
while, and if if doesn't work they can bring it back.'

The Well Hung gallery opened 15 months ago in London's Notting Hill. Prices
range from pounds 50 to pounds 10,000, and shoppers walk around not in reverent
silence but to the sound of Virgin FM - though that may be because the radio
station's owner and DJ, Chris Evans, also owns Well Hung.

'People are looking more and more for big and bright abstracts for their homes,'
says gallery manager Lisa Samos. This summer she is arranging an exhibition for
local shops, a gym and a post office.

Diners at the Sun & Doves restaurant in Camberwell, south London, eat inside
what is also a gallery, containing tens of works from up to a dozen different
artists. Most prices range from pounds 80 to pounds 1,200, though a few sell for
up to pounds 3,000. 'It used to be just collectors who came in and bought,' says
owner Mark Dodds. 'Now it's more and more our restaurant customers.'

'The pendulum of fashion is, I suppose, moving again,' says Norman Rosenthal,
the Royal Academy's exhibitions secretary. 'It's more sensual and direct and,
yes, it's painting.' But he dismisses those who argue conceptual art is on the
wane.  'Look at the huge success of our Sensation exhibition' - the Academy's
famous 1997 show, to which artists like Damien Hirst and Rachel Whiteread drew
around 300,000 visitors.

'People who say they can't understand it are talking rubbish,' says Rosenthal.

'If you've only seen one football game, you won't understand it. But go to 10
games and you will. It's the same with conceptual art.'

Some critics disagree. Brian Sewell, the London Evening Standard's acerbic art
writer, still regards most conceptual artists as 'self-seeking circus freaks.
That's the way the public sees them, too,' he says. While he accepts that colour
is back, Sewell is worried.  'Much of it is no better than wall graffiti. The
trouble is that art schools deride that most important of skills, the
low-technology paintbrush, and think that video is better.

'But video is an invader in the world of art. It belongs in the cinema. Where
are the great still-life or landscape painters of today?'

One explanation for the return of painting is that galleries, perhaps sensing
the end of the British art boom, need to make money. 'Installations don't sell,'
says Jonathan Jones of the contemporary art magazine Untitled. 'I think it's at
last realised that only public places and Charles Saatchi buy installation art,
and not private homes.'

This week also sees the opening of what will be the biggest art blockbuster of
the year - the Royal Academy's Monet exhibition, for which more than 120,000
people have already paid the pounds 9 admission in advance. About 600,000 people
are expected to see the show, which runs until April.

They will also have bought Monet knick-knacks - including garden seeds and a
cuddly toy called Philippe the Frog, after those who lived in his Giverny pond -
and they may have sampled Monet cocktails in the Savoy Hotel overlooking the
Thames, which he depicted in his paintings.

The public will also pile in to see this year's Ingres exhibition at the
National and Sargent at the Tate. They are all easy-on-the-eye winners.


Each bemoaned the conditions when visited earlier this week by David Pearce, the
deputy ambassador and consul general. Pearce said they appeared relaxed and
showed no outward sign of physical abuse, though their lawyers have say one has
been slapped and another suspended and the soles of his feet beaten.

The muddle over whether the men have been tortured reflects the general mystery
surrounding them. The five are: Mohsin Ghalain, 18, from London; Ghulam Hussein,
25, from Luton; and Shahid Butt, 33, Malik Nassar Harhra, 26, Samad Ahmed, 21,
all from Birmingham.

According to their families, the men - all devout Muslims - were studying Arabic
during a spiritual holiday in Yemen when they were arrested two days before
Christmas.

Last week a Yemeni newspaper printed pictures of the arms cache which is said to
have been seized with them. It includes a rocket launcher, explosives, fuses and
satellite phones. Unusual possessions for students of Arabic.

The men allegedly confessed that were on a bombing mission in the name of Islam.
And it seems that even senior figures in the British Foreign Office believe that
there may be some truth in their admissions.

One Foreign Office source told The Observer last week: 'There may not be enough
evidence to convict them in a British court, but there is enough to arouse
suspicions.'

Senior diplomats in Yemen also claimed that the men had admitted being involved
in a plot. But when the men appeared at short hearing in the Central Security
Headquarters on Friday, they all pleaded not guilty to charges of 'associating
with an armed gang with the intention of committing violent atrocities'.

Their lawyers say the confessions were extracted by torture. Indeed, on the face
of it, it would seem peculiar that three students, a catering manager and a
security guard would find themselves involved in a plot to bomb targets in Aden.

The key to the mystery may lay lie in London's Finsbury Park, where the gleaming
new Central Mosque has become a centre for extreme Islamic politics. In
particular, attention has focused on one the mosque's religious leaders.

ABU HAMZA AL-MASRI (whose names translates as Father Hamza the Egyptian) is an
extraordinary-looking man. Tall and bearded, with one eye, he looks like an
Islamic fundamentalist villain straight from central casting.

He lost both his hands fighting for the Mujahideen in Afghanistan, where his
revolutionary religious politics were forged. He leads a London-based group
called Ansar al-Sharia (Supporters of Sharia) and claims to have links with the
GIA (Armed Islamic Group) in Algeria, the Egyptian Islamic opposition and Muslim
groups in Bosnia.

Unlike most Islamic opposition figures in Britain, he is not committed to the
overthrow of one government; he wants the overthrow of all regimes that do not
adhere to Islamic law as he sees it.

His links with extreme groups have, however, proved useful to British
intelligence services who have been secretly monitoring his telephone
conversations for two years. 'He was not regarded as dangerous in himself but he
was a great way of finding out about what everyone else was up to,' said one
source.

The alarm bells should have rung when Hamza had a satellite phone conversation
with Sheikh Abul Hassan Mehdar, leader of an Islamist terrorist group in the
Yemen. Hassan warned that things were 'going to get vicious' if Westerners
visited his country. This was not an idle threat.

The arrest of the five British men - and another who was Hamza's son - before
Christmas fired Hassan into action. In late December 16 British, American and
Australian tourists were taken hostage by Hassan and his 'Islamic Army' as a
bargaining counter.

It resulted in the now infamous shoot-out between the hostage takers and the
Yemeni army which ended with deaths of three Britons and one Australian. When a
defiant Hassan appeared in court last week charged with their murders, he
admitted having discussions with Hamza about the hostage-taking.

In a conversation monitored by British intelligence before the shoot-out, Hamza
is said to have told Hassan not to harm the hostages.

Hamza said this week: 'I had been contacted by Hassan to clarify to me, in the
aftermath of the kidnapping, that he did not expect the Yemeni government to
deal with this matter as it usually does.

'He just wanted to clarify this point and to dissociate himself from the blood
of the hostages shed by the government's awkward act. And this is what we did.'

Certainly Hamza has sympathy with Hassan's cause. At Friday prayers at his
mosque last week, he continued to urge British Muslims to join the struggle of
their oppressed brothers across the Islamic world.

Last week members of the Muslim community in Britain were already distancing
themselves from Hamza. The trustees of his own mosque, the North London Central
Mosque Trust, applied in November to the Charity Commission for a grant to take
him to court after they became worried about his incendiary sermons and
connections with terrorist organisations.

They have now come to an agreement that Hamza will not have an office at the
mosque and will only be allowed to preach two sermons a month.

Although the Muslim community in Britain is riven with factions, it is unusual
for it to make them public. But even the radical Muslim Parliament, which
supported the fatwa calling for the death of Salman Rushdie, believes Hamza's
views are unacceptable.

Serious questions remain about why Hamza was allowed to continue unchecked by
the British authorities. Legislation rushed through Parliament last September in
the wake of outrage at the Omagh bombings made it an offence to organise
terrorist activities abroad from this country.

It has been suggested that Hamza was not taken seriously until too late and may
still not be the main focus of police attention.

Already the legislation has proved problematic and raised concerns among the
Muslim community and human rights activists of an Islamophobic crackdown. London
has a long tradition of sheltering people fleeing persecution in the Arab world.

Six Egyptians and a Saudi dissident were arrested in September under the new
powers, but charges were dropped after five days of interrogations. They are all
now being detained under other separate legislation.

THE LINKS BETWEEN the British fundamentalists and Yemen have been puzzling
investigators. Why was Yemen a target?

It may simply be a matter of chance connections - old links between Hamza and
Hassan that date back to the Afghan war. But there was speculation in the Yemeni
press last week that there might be another agenda, and not particularly an
Islamic one.

Some Yemenisare tempted to link it to continuing resentment over the brief
secession attempt by southern leaders in 1994.

The army newspaper, 26 September, claimed last week that one of the suspects,
Malik Harhara, who has dual British and Yemeni nationality, was 'a former
officer with the group of separatists who fled to London in the aftermath of the
war in summer 1994'.

The suggestion should, however, be treated with caution because the Yemeni
government tends to blame the separatists and the Saudis for most of the
country's ills.

The main organisation of exiled separatists is Mowj, which has offices in Regent
Street, London. Last Wednesday it issued a statement saying: 'The Yemeni
Opposition condemns violence in any way, shape or form and sympathises with the
families who have lost loved ones as a result of the rampant insecurity in our
country.'

It went on: 'We continue to hold the ruling regime responsible for the state of
insecurity which reigns in the country and which has led to this terrible
situation of hostage-taking and death.'

There is already a substantial lobby in Britain who believe the five men are
innocent and fear that they will not be given a fair trial. Yesterday a crowd of
5,000 gathered outside Birmingham's town hall to beg for the lives of the men.

Traditional Islamists rubbed shoulders with the new hard right. Besuited
suburbanites stood next to bovver-booted fundamentalists. And as a visibly
bewildered police force looked on, those campaigning made their demands.

'When do we want them back?' screamed the voices from the stage. 'Now,' intoned
the crowd. Over the square separate chants rippled, each more vociferous than
the last: 'Bring them back home,' and 'Allah - U Akbar'.

Meanwhile in Yemen yesterday people were showing bemusement that terrorists
should have travelled to their country from Britain.

One mansaid: 'Never in my life did I hear of British terrorists. Did they come
here to bomb? Amazing.'


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            January 17, 1999, Sunday

KICK OUT THESE MAD TERRORISTS

BYLINE: George Tyndale

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 386 words


FROM the dust storm of lies, threats and hatred that is howling around the
Yemeni prison holding five British passport holders one figure emerges with
absolute clarity.

He is Abu Hamza, the ranting Muslim extremist who is leader of the Supporters of
Shariah, an organisation dedicated to channelling fanaticism into violence.

The fat, bearded zealot who lost both his hands and the sight of one eye
apparently as a result of the so-called holy war he wages, now organises
military training for young Muslim men who share with him a deep hatred of just
about everything the West st ands for. He has admitted talking by telephone to
the Yemeni terrorists who kidnapped a party of 16 tourists and left three
Britons dead.

He is also linked to the bloody carnage in Algeria which has cost 100,000 lives.

At least one of his sons is thought to be associated with the group currently
held in the Yemen accused of a plot to blow up the British consulate there.

Obviously Abu Hamza is the kind of figure we would want, at all costs, to keep
out of Britain were it not 14 years too late. He was given citizenship in 1985
and now operates from the comfort and safety of a mosque in London's Finsbury
Park.

Which would be appalling enough if Hamza were an exceptional figure, but he is
not.

Only four months ago this column warned of the activities of Omar Bakri Mohamed,
the sheikh operating from Edmonton, in North London, where he heads a group
called Al-Muhajiroun. There are nine Islamic organisations in the capital alone
which harbour and encourage Muslim extremists.

Omar Bakri Mohammed claims he knows all five of the suspects being held in the
Yemen because he has met them at lectures.

The five - including three from Birmingham - continue to protest that they are
innocents caught up in this shadowy world of intrigue and terrorism.

But the central scandal of this issue remains unchanged.

Britain is not only offering a safe heaven to zealots like Abu Hamza but in many
cases is supporting them through the benefits system.

And the Government does no more than talk of a new law which will make it an
offence to conspire to commit terrorist acts abroad.

We should not be wasting time trying to prevent these men exporting terrorism.
We should be exporting them.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              121 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 19, 1999, Tuesday

YEMEN A LONG WAY FROM THE GARDEN OF ADEN;
 CHRIS GRAY CHARTS THE HISTORY OF YEMEN, THE ARAB COUNTRY THAT HAS NOW BECOME A
BY-WORD FOR TERROR.

BYLINE: Chris Gray

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 926 words


Kidnappings, terrorist executions and torture have hardly been out of the
headlines since the New Year began.

They have all been coming from one of the smaller countries in the Middle East,
which normally rarely figures in news bulletins, even when that turbulent region
is at the centre of the world's attention.

Its relative obscurity made it an attraction for the more adventurous British
tourist, such as the group who travelled there with the Explore travel company
before Christmas.

Their horrific experience, when members of the group were kidnapped and four
killed in a rescue attempt, propelled Yemen into the British public's
consciousness.

Since then, five British Muslims have been arrested in Yemen on suspicion of
terrorist activity, another hostage has been released and the trial has started
of the Yemenis accused of murdering the four tourists.

Every day seems to reveal another frightening aspect to the country.

In fact the terrible events in the Yemen have occurred partly because it is in
the last decade that it has become more accessible than at any time in its
history.

Although Britain had a presence in Yemen for more than a century, it was
restricted to the city of Aden and its surrounding area, near to the Red Sea and
the shipping route that led north to the Suez Canal.

Britain ruled the city for 129 years and held protectorate status over its
hinterland until 1967, but it was always in conflict with the Hamid al-Din
dynasty, which ruled the country after Turkish occupation collapsed at the end
of the First World War. D uring the reign of Imam Ahmad, clashes with Britain
occurred regularly and Ahmad sought protection from Cairo, resulting in a
short-lived pact between Yemen, Egypt and Syria.

On his father's death in 1962, Ahmad's son, Muhammed al-Badr, ruled for only a
week, before a military coup led by Colonel Abdullah al-Sallal proclaimed a
republic.

Backed by the United Arab Republic, this new regime was known as the Yemen Arab
Republic (YAR).

A civil war followed between the republic, backed by Egypt, and Royalist forces,
backed by Saudi Arabia.

The war continued until 1970, when the republic was finally recognised by Saudi
Arabia.

In the meantime, the British had held on to Aden against fierce guerilla
fighting, but in 1967 were forced to withdraw, making way for a new state, the
People's Republic of South Yemen, to be established.

The new republic relied heavily on economic support from Communist countries and
became the first and only Arab Marxist state.

In 1970 the republic's name was changed to the People's Democratic Republic of
Yemen (PDRY).

It existed in a state of mutual distrust with the other Yemen republic to the
north and tension broke out into a series of short border wars in 1972, 1978 and
1979.

Two presidents of the YAR were assassinated during this period. But under the
Presidency of Ali Abdullah Salah of the Hashid tribe, in the late
seventies/early eighties, the stability of the YAR steadily improved.

By the end of 1981 a constitution had been drafted to implement a peaceful
merger between the two states.

Unification was delayed by political instability in the PDRY and it was not
until May 22, 1990 that the merger was made official.

The new country was named the Republic of Yemen. The border was opened and
demilitarised, although the border with Saudi Arabia remained in dispute.

Currencies were declared valid in both of the former countries and a referendum
sealed the unification of the Yemen.

Since then the Yemen slowly became more accessible.

Although there was no major tourist industry, visitors were welcomed on a modest
scale, and Yemeni society became more modernised.

However, it was still plagued by conflict and the coalition Government set up in
1993 of the General People's Congress, the Islamic Islah and the Yemeni
Socialist Party was unstable.

The elites from the former northern and southern republics remained at each
others' throats and after occasional clashes a new civil war broke out in May
1994.

The Northern forces proved victorious, taking Aden in July and a new coalition
Government of the General People's Congress and the Islamic Islah was formed.

In theory the country is now a democracy, but human rights organisations are
deeply concerned about the activities of Yemen's security forces.

Despite producing about 400,000 barrels of oil a day, Yemen remains one of the
world's poorest countries and life expectancy is only 50.

Most of its 14 million population still work in agriculture, which produces
mainly subsistence crops for consumption at home.

Politically the country has never been fully reconciled with the West and was
seen as supporting Iraq during the Gulf War, which led to Saudi Arabia banning
Yemeni nationals from working in Saudi Arabia.

Events in the Gulf appear to have sparked the recent outbreak of terrorism,
which are seen as revenge attacks made in response to the British and American
air strikes on Iraq.

Many Yemenis emigrated to Britain to escape the turmoil and civil war occurring
in their homeland.

Now some of the original immigrants fear some of their offspring are growing up
to see their adopted home as the enemy and turning instead to the values of
Islamic fundamentalist extremists who believe Yemen should throw off Western
-style rule and become an Islamic nation.

British citizens who travel to the country have now been proved highly likely to
be caught in the cross-fire.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              122 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          January 20, 1999, Wednesday

NAME THEM;
 PRESSURE ON MPS TO REVEAL IDENTITY OF OMAGH BOMBER AND EVIL PUNISHMENT BOSSES

BYLINE: By Donna Carton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 979 words


THE OMAGH BOMB MAKER: Former IRA activist, now second in command in the Real
IRA. This ruthless killer is under surv- eillance by the Garda Special Branch.

The middle-aged, married father who lives on a Dundalk estate is a republican
hardliner who helped set up the Real IRA when the IRA called a ceasefire in
1994.

He is wanted in Northern Ireland for the murder of two off-duty RUC men.

THE IRA GODFATHER: In his 30s, he is thought to be Officer Commanding of the IRA
in Belfast's Ardoyne area. He is widely known in republican circles as a
merciless terrorist who allegedly ordered the killing of north Belfast man
Andrew Kearney with whom he'd had an argument after a card game.

THE IRA GUNMAN: Trigger man in the particularly brutal beating and shooting of
Andrew Kearney.

THE IRA BEATINGS BOSS: Allegedly orchestrates the street gangs who prowl the
nationalist estates of south Belfast. He was freed from prison under the Good
Friday Agreement.

The 28-year-old selects victims for IRA punishment and organises the time, place
and method. Since his release from jail he has orchestrated a series of severe
assaults on an almost nighly basis in south Belfast.

THE UVF BEATINGS BOSS: Joined the loyalist terror group four years ago but rose
in the ranks.

He is commander of the Antrim Brigade and is feared throughout the loyalist
estates in the town.

THE UVF KILLER: Was jailed for the murder of a Catholic but on his release
carried out beatings for the UDA. Recently fled Northern Ireland following death
threats.

THE Irish Mirror knows the identities of the Omagh bomber and the five
terrorists who run Northern Ireland's ruthless punishment squads.

We have a list of names but are unable to print them because of legal
constraints.

However, pressure is growing on MPs in Britain to expose the paramilitary
godfathers in the Commons today.

And the message to them this morning from a bereaved Omagh relative is: "Be
brave, name the bomber, name the terror chiefs."

As politicians prepared to press on with a "name and shame" bid during Northern
Ireland Questions this afternoon, the uncle of a young woman killed in the Real
IRA atrocity last August called for "courage and conviction".

Politicians had planned to name who built the car bomb which killed 29 people
but were urged to think again by RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan and
Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam.

Conservative MP Andrew Hunter plans to reveal the identities of six alleged
paramilitaries - three loyalists and three republicans - but last night he was
still taking legal advice on whether to name those behind the Omagh bombing.

Families Against Intimidation and Terror (FAIT) spokesman Vincent McKenna, who
is working with Mr Hunter, said: "We will take this right to the wire and make a
decision on Omagh after taking as much legal advice as we can."

Sir Ronnie said that naming terrorist suspects could be "prejudicial to bringing
before the courts those involved in such crimes".

He said there were "continuing grounds for optimism" that the Omagh bombers
would be caught.

But Oliver Gibson, who's niece Esther, 36, was killed while on a shopping trip
to Omagh on August 15, said the time had come to expose those "on the run from
justice."

Esther, a Sunday school teacher, was due to marry fiancee Kenneth Hawkes this
July, on her 37th birthday.

Last night an angry Mr Gibson accused the government of forgetting about the
victims.

He said: "I very much hope they have the courage to do it, but I'm not
confident.

"My message to them is: do what you said you would do. Are you men or mice?

"The victims and their relatives of Omagh and other atrocities, are sick and
thoroughly disgusted that terrorists have so many hiding places.

"Those who know, should name names. It should have been done long ago.

"Remember the great new legislation we got. It wasn't so dramatic after all."

Detectives hunting the Omagh killers believe they know at least six men
belonging to the Real IRA they suspect were directly involved in the August 15
attack.

Although they have questioned at least 20, no one has been charged because of
insufficient evidence.

Mo Mowlam urged Mr Hunter to think "very seriously" before naming names.

In Omagh yesterday she said: "The primary duty of politicians in this situation
is to do everything we can to help the RUC bring those responsible for the Omagh
bomb to justice.

"What Mr Hunter is proposing to do will have the reverse effect.

"I have had it confirmed, on the best possible legal advice, that it could
prejudice any eventual prosecution, the continuing police investigation and,
therefore, prevent justice being done.

"That would be an insult to the memory of those who died and to the deep
commitment shown by the RUC team investigating the atrocity.""

Ms Mowlam said everyone desperately wanted to see those responsible brought to
justice.

"But she said it is not enough to rely on rumour, or the word of a journalist,
as Mr Hunter admits he has done.

"The law demands evidence, and, frustrating as the process can be, that is the
standard we must meet.

"The alternative is justice by headline, and I regret that that is what Mr
Hunter appears to want,"" she added.

Mr Hunter and Shadow Northern Ireland Secretary Andrew McKay, met victims of
terror in Markethill yesterday.

They talked to Fred Sterritt, who hit out at the government this week for
preparing to release the IRA killer of his son David, a policeman, on the 10th
anniversary of his death.

Mr Mackay said he would be raising the matter with Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam in
the Commons today.

"I think it's outrageous, absolutely unbelievable that the murderer of PC
Sterritt could possibly be released on the anniversary of this murder," he
said."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              123 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 21, 1999, Thursday

SHEIKH WARNS BRITONS TO STAY OUT OF YEMEN;
 EUROPEAN CITIZENS ARE NOT OUR IMMEDIATE TARGETS: SHEIK ABU HAMZA YESTERDAY.

BYLINE: By Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 413 words


A religious fanatic linked to three Birmingham men being held in the Yemen on
terrorist charges yesterday warned British tourists to keep out of the country
or risk returning home in a coffin.

Sheik Abu Hamza, a cleric of the Finsbury Park Mosque in London and leader of
the Supporters of Shariah, denied his group was a vehicle for military action.

But he said: "European citizens are not our immediate targets unless they jump
the queue and come right up into our faces."

Hamza, who claims to have lost both his hands and an eye while fighting with the
Al Mujahideen in Afghanistan, said he wanted to tell Westerners what they faced
when their government "goes to war with Islam".

Egyptian-born Hamza, who has been a British citizen since 1985, said: "If they
are not targets themselves, they are being seen as representatives of their
oppressive regimes."

Hamza's stepson is one of five British men being held in the Yemen, while his
son is being sought by Yemeni authorities. He said he did not know why the men
were in the Yemen.

He has been linked to Muslim terrorist Osama bin Laden, who the US claims was
responsible for bombing of US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania, killing 258
people. Hamza said he had never met bin Laden "but it would be an honour for me
to meet him".

Scotland Yard is understood to be monitoring the activities of Hamza and the
Supporters of Shariah.

Midland MPs called the cleric a fanatic and Mr Michael Fabricant (Con Lichfield)
described his comments as outrageous threats.

"If the sheikh is a British citizen, it should be made clear to him that threats
of this nature are illegal and can carry a jail sentence," he said.

"There should be no room in a democracy for individuals threatening others for
speaking their mind or travelling where they wish."

Mr Roger Godsiff (Lab Sparkbrook and Small Heath) said: "Unfortunately, there
are a variety of people who have accepted the protection and hospitality of
Britain and they have not repaid that humanitarian attention, and instead have
turned around and mad e some totally incorrect and fanatical statements."

Samad Ahmed (21), from Yardley, Malik Nasser Harhra (26) and Shahid Butt (33),
both of Small Heath, are charged with associating with armed groups and plotting
terrorist atrocities.

Mohsin Ghalain (18), from London, and Ghulam Hussein (25), from Luton, face the
same charges. All have pleaded not guilty and retracted confessions.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              124 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            January 22, 1999, Friday

POLICE HORSES TO GO;
 MORE BOBBIES IN BIG SHAKE-UP

BYLINE: By Phil Banner, Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words


WEST Midlands Police is to scrap its mounted branch and underwater search unit
as part of sweeping changes announced today.

Chief Constable Edward Crew has ordered a drastic restructuring of Britain's
second biggest force which will lead to up to 300 constable posts in specialist
squads being axed.

The measures - to be phased in over the next 12 months - include putting the
force's 20 police horses out to grass and shutting the stables at Park Lane,
Aston - as revealed last week in the Evening Mail.

The move is bound to trigger a public outcry because police officers on horses
are a British tradition and the popular animals cannot be rivalled at crowd
control - particularly when trouble flares at football matches.

The younger horses, who still have a long working life ahead of them, are
expected to be transferred to other forces.

West Midlands Police has promised that the older animals will be found good
homes- probably with horse charities.

A spokesman said: "The welfare of the horses is our priority and they may still
be seen on the streets for many months to come.

"We know that they have done sterling work and that they have a special place in
the hearts of people and we will be ensuring that they all have good and secure
futures."

Mr Crew has decided on the controversial shake-up, which has caused unrest and
sinking morale amongst rank-and-file officers, because he is determined to get
back to grassroots policing by putting more bobbies on the beat in local
communities.

The 7,300-strong force also needs to urgently save money because it faces a
pounds 9 million budget shortfall because of Government cuts and also has to
find another pounds 7 million of "efficiency" savings.

Last year, 200 officers were switched to frontline policing on the streets.

Mr Crew said this afternoon that he was making the changes because local
policing had been shown to work.

"In the past 18 months we have made excellent progress in the fight against
crime," he said.

"Many areas of serious crime, such as robbery and burglary are down and we have
seen increases in the number of offences detected.

"We need to continue this and to do that we need police officers where they are
needed most - at the frontline, working with the local community."

Searches

The Underwater Search Squad - based at Woodbridge Road station, Moseley - which
plays a vital role in top-level investigations, looking for dumped murder
weapons and evidence and is also used in searches and trying to locate terrorist
bombs, is to be bro ken up

As predicted by the Evening Mail, the eight officers on the team will be moved
to Operational Command Units throughout the region, although they will be
brought back together to go on diving missions on specialist operations.

The force's Operational Support Unit will also be scaled down, along with the
three Major Investigations Teams set up two years ago to investigate the most
serious crimes such as murder, rape and kidnap.

Officers will be moved into the suburbs on the 21 OCUs and many detectives from
the centralised drugs squad will also be moved into local areas.

Mr Crew described the decisions he had now made as "difficult", but he
explained: "Time and time again, we have shown that policing works when it is
based locally, working alongside the local community."

He added: "It is important to remember that apart from the high cost of running
some of these units, policing has changed considerably over the last decade or
so.

"We are not getting the return on our investment and we are only providing those
units at the expense of the bobby on the beat that the public wants.

"All organisations have to change and adapt and we are no different. What was
appropriate several years ago may not be appropriate for modern policing as we
approach the Millennium."

The changes will mean that each OCU will receive at least another seven officers
and possibly 14. Mr Crew stressed that Major Investigations Teams would still
assist with serious and cross-border crimes.

Teams of specialist officers would also remain at the centre, providing
necessary skills and support to operational officers.

Trend

Mr Crew added: "As a result of the streamlining of senior posts we have already
carried out, this force has bucked the national trend and we have been able to
continue recruiting officers.

"Since last June we have increased the number of police constable posts by 317
and we hope to continue recruiting despite facing major budget constraints in
the future."

Trevor Forbes, secretary of the West Midlands Police Federation, said: "We have
concerns over the planned reduction with obvious worries over operational
support to frontline officers and the necessity to tackle the hardline criminal
fraternity."

C1

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              125 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 22, 1999

Man they couldn't silence is shouting for Ulster

BYLINE: Peter Jackson

SECTION: Pg. 73

LENGTH: 1549 words



AS a player, the honourable Member for Fermanagh & South Tyrone propped up the
scrum for Dungan-non until his back could no longer stand the strain.

As a fearless politician, he has survived so many attempts on his life by IRA
bombers and gunmen that the estimates of exactly how many vary from 12 to 20, a
chilling subject which the man himself dismisses matter-of-factly: 'I'm told
it's in double figures.' For all sorts of reasons, therefore, Ken Maginnis could
never have imagined he would live to see Ulster play for the European Cup, his
native Province having given the two most powerful clubs in France the heave-ho
en route to next week's Lansdowne Road final.

When they confront Colomiers, the Unionist Party's formidable deputy leader and
spokesman on security will be there, one of 30,000 making the cross-border jaunt
to Dublin for an occasion which promises to reassure the game's more distressed
followers that the lunatics are not in complete control of the asylum.

As a rugby man to his bootlaces, Maginnis symbolises the traditional values
sustaining Ulster's exhilarating expedition against all the odds.

At the end of a very bad week for the old game, how gratifying to discover a
place where it is booming as never before.

A team of almost exclusively home-grown players captained by David Humphries
under a home-grown coach, the unsung Harry Williams, stand on the verge of
completing the most improbable victory on Irish soil since their cricketers
ambushed the West Indies in a little place called Sion Mills 30 years ago,
bowling them out for 25.

'The big English clubs

Sion Mills 30 years ago, bowling them out for 25.

'The big English clubs are a melange of international players,' said Maginnis,
61 yesterday. 'Our players are almost all Ulster born and Ulster bred. We take
our satisfaction from that rather than buying players from the Southern
Hemisphere.' The shameful shenanigans which provoked England's expulsion from
the Five Nations on Monday and their reinstatement in a state of some
capitulation on Tuesday may have perplexed even as shrewd a politician as
Maginnis but, as a club-man through and through, he had a vested interest.

Despite the remorseless constituency demands and his high-profile role in the
Northern Ireland peace process, the self-styled 'solid, durable' front row
forward of the Sixties still works for his hometown club, aiming to raise more
than $500,000, free, gratis and for nothing.

'I'm glad England have been brought to heel,' he said in his capacity as
honorary chairman of Dungannon RFC's development committee. 'I believe it's
wrong that one nation

should have the resources to attract the best players from the other countries.
I see the possibility of England opting out overall. Because they have more
top-class clubs, they have been able to use the extra money to take players away
from Ireland, Scotland and Wales.

'My criticism is that they have tried to prevent some rugby money coming back to
the other countries. It's definitely in their best interests that England are
brought to heel over the TV money.

'Had they got away with it they would certainly have prevented clubs in the
other three countries generating the sort of finance to employ people like the
Harry Williamses and Willie Ander-sons to develop new talent.

'Much as I applaud Ulster's fantastic efforts, and much as I want to see the
Irish team do well, I want the clubs to endure. I'm a seed-man, a nursery man. I
want to see facilities for the 2nd, 3rd, 4th and 5th XV's, for the youth team
and the minis.

'The forgotten people in rugby are those who turn out at nine o'clock every
Saturday morning for 90 to 100 little kiddies so they can play the game. Those
people are the engine-room of rugby.' Tomorrow week Maginnis will be at
Lansdowne Road with Northern Ireland's Nobel prize-winning First Minister, David
Trimble.

'I'll steer him through the politics of Irish rugby,' he said with a chuckle. 'I
have my ticket and I hope it isn't an anticlimax, irrespective of who wins.' A
good job he won't have to steer him through the maze of Five Nations politics.
Even Ken Maginnis would have thought twice about that

A NOTICE pinned outside the entrance to the Rugby Club in London this week might
have come straight out of the Blitz: 'For the duration of the present
hostilities at Twickenham, the club is open for business as usual.'

QUESTIONS having been asked in the House of Commons about England's brief
expulsion from the Five Nations Championship, it appeared at one stage as though
the Deputy Prime Minister had come to the rescue of the RFU. Their spin doctor
appeared on television billed as John Prescott when it should have been Richard
Prescott.

France and England to dominate Euro Cup

A NEW European Cup is on the drawing board for next season - a 24-club
competition with England and France providing two-thirds of the cast.

The framework of the tournament, finalised by the club power brokers of both
countries in Paris earlier this week, is based around eight English teams and
eight from France.

The ramifications of their entente will be viewed as anything but cordial by the
majority of Unions involved.

The four other competing countries will not be amused to learn that their
numbers have been reduced.

Under the scheme Wales will have to make do with three clubs, Ireland with two
provinces, Scotland with two districts (they only have two anyway) and Italy
one.

The English clubs, who refuse to end their boycott of Europe under the Union men
currently running the tournament, must now sell their plan to the Rugby Football
Union.

The French clubs will do likewise to their Federation while making it clear that
they have no intention of competing in Europe again until the structure is
changed.

The implication is clear: that the English and French intend going their own way
even if the rest decide to opt out.

In that event, the European Cup could not survive in its current form.

Whatever the mechanics of the alternative tournament, as agreed between
delegations headed by the English clubs' chairman Tom Walkinshaw and his French
counterpart Serge Blanco, most Unions will see it as a club attempt to take
control.

It sounds like the recipe for another almighty ruck but then there's nothing new
about that.

Davies quits Richmond

ANOTHER of Richmond's Welsh contingent, prop John Davies, is on the verge of
upping sticks and heading home, to Llanelli for a fee of $60,000.

The deal, being finalised by Mike 'Fix-it' Burton, will reunite Davies with his
compatriot, Scott Quinnell, a $200,000 signing from Richmond last month.

Davies, the ex-Neath tighthead who cost Richmond $50,000 to entice from his
Pembrokeshire farm two years ago, is expected to make the move after next
Tuesday's rearranged match against Leicester at the Madejski Stadium.

Cardiff, at loggerheads with the Welsh Rugby Union all season, are now asking
them to buy out Anthony Sullivan's rugby league contract at St Helens.

The Great Britain wing is due to rejoin the club next week at the end of a
three-month loan spell which has not dissuaded coach Graham Henry from picking
him in a 27-man squad before the Five Nations opener at Murrayfield fortnight
tomorrow.

'Somebody has to do something because it's not realistic for him to be playing
for Wales one week and going back to rugby league the next,' said Cardiff chief
executive Gareth Davies.

'It's up to the WRFU to buy him out of his contract.'

SOUTHERN Hemisphere referees will handle all but one of England's Five Nations
matches.

New Zealander Steve Walsh will referee them in Dublin, his compatriot Colin
Hawke the French game and South African Andre Watson against Wales at Wembley in
April.

Brawl ban for Spartans

GLOUCESTER Spartans' entire first team have been banned over a mass brawl which
forced the abandonment of last month's league match against Cinderford five
minutes before halftime.

Suspensions of two weeks on 13 players and five weeks for the other two left the
Gloucestershire Cup holders no alternative but to field reserve teams for their
next matches, against Clevedon and Taunton.

Cinderford emerged unscathed, apart from the bruises. 'The referee's report
blamed us entirely which does seem a little odd considering there were two sides
on the field,' said Spartans player-manager Bobby Fowke. 'The referee gave 15
penalties against us during the first 10 minutes but he would not allow us to
ask why they had been awarded. People got more and more frustrated and, in the
end, it boiled over.' While on the subject, the 1974 Lions launched their 25th
anniversary celebrations in Edinburgh yesterday with a basic exposition of the
notorious '99' call used throughout their rampaging tour of South Africa.

As Scotland's Gordon Brown put it: 'The referees weren't looking after us so we
had to take things into our own hands. When Willie John McBride called the magic
"99" as captain, you just belted the nearest bloke assuming, of course, he
wasn't one of ours.

'It certainly sorted out the stupidity. We were involved in brawling but it was
organised brawling with a purpose as we had to protect ourselves.'


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              126 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        The Times Educational Supplement

                                January 22, 1999

Education grants for Ulster victims

BYLINE: PAUL MCGILL

SECTION: Issue 4308, Pg.14

LENGTH: 293 words


PEOPLE whose schooling has been disrupted by the conflict in Northern Ireland
could benefit from a new educational bursary scheme.

Awards of up to Pounds 2,500 can be made to anybody who has suffered as a result
of terrorist violence anywhere in the United Kingdom. This means victims of the
Warrington bomb and other attacks in Britain could benefit, as could the
families of soldiers killed in Northern Ireland. Even the Spanish or Republic of
Ireland families caught up in the Omagh bomb last August could apply.

The bursary was announced by Adam Ingram, Northern Ireland minister with special
responsibility for victims.

'We can't imagine what kind of applications we are going to get or the numbers,'
said Lynda Wilson, director of children's services for Barnardo's in Northern
Ireland, who will head the group assessing the applications. But the indications
are that demand will be substantial.

'I would like to see a wider strategy against educational disadvantage, but this
scheme will help,' Ms Wilson added.

There are no restrictions on the form of education or type of support requested
but there are three criteria for the bursaries.

* Applicants must have lost a parent, family member or significant other person
as a result of the Troubles or must themselves have been injured with resulting
physical or psychological effect.

* There must have been a clear impact on education - for example, a person might
have dropped out of school or lost confidence.

* The applicant must be able to identify a clear link between the money
requested and the likely benefits to their education, such as cash for books,
fees or computers.

Contact Barnardo's on 01232 672366, or the Victims' Support Unit on 01232 527900

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1999 TSL Education Limited

                              127 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 23, 1999, Saturday

Point of no return: David Shayler; In November, when the French decided not to
extradite MI5 whistleblower David Shayler, he and his girlfriend Annie Machon
hoped their troubles were over. But life in exile has proved harder than
expected. Unable to leave France for fear of arrest, the pair are out of work
and down to their last pounds 5,000. By E Jane Dickson. Photograph by Wist
Thorpe

BYLINE: E Jane Dickson

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 12.1

LENGTH: 2469 words


The pale noon of Paris fails to penetrate the hotel lobby where David Shayler is
waiting. It is not a fashionable establishment; rather, one of those rackety
joints where Anglophones gather to swap memories of Hershey bars and HP sauce.
But, for the professional couple in the back booth, this is both a refuge and an
operational HQ. This is where Annie Machon stayed when she came to visit David
Shayler in gaol.  This is where they gather their friends and resources and try
to work out how on earth Shayler is going to get home.

Last November, when David Shayler walked free from La Sante prison, he looked
like New Labour's worst nightmare: an unreconstructed hairy lefty in a
Middlesbrough FC shirt, shouting the odds about freedom of information in our
brave new Britain. The French court had refused to extradite Shayler, a former
MI5 agent who blew the whistle on incompetence in the Security Service, on the
grounds that his revelations were a political act. He is, for the moment, a free
man, but should he set foot outside any French border, it is understood that the
extradition process will start all over again. "It could be worse," says
Shayler, on the way to lunch at a nearby restaurant. "lt could have been Belgium
that I wasn't extradited from."

The grim humour is typical. For a man going nowhere, Shayler laughs a lot, but
his eyes are deeply shadowed by 18 months of uncertainty. In August 1997, five
months after the left the Service, Shayler decided to speak out against the
culture of obsessive bureaucracy and bungling he had witnessed in MI5.

In an article in the Mail on Sunday he alleged that secret files had been held
on prominent Labour politicians, including Jack Straw, Harriet Harman and Peter
Mandelson. For many, this revelation was so unsurprising as to be hardly worth
breaking the Official Secrets Act for. In the late Seventies and early Eighties,
the thrilling prospect of your very own MI5 file was all too often the prime
reason for joining university Labour clubs. It was enough, however, for the
Government to slap an injunction on the Mail on Sunday to prevent any further
revelations and for Shayler to skip the country with pounds 20,000 from the Mail
on Sunday for expenses.

Much more damaging were Shayler's subsequent claims that the Government had been
party to an assassination attempt on Colonel Gadaffi, the Libyan leader,
something the Foreign Office strenuously denies, and that the Government had had
prior warning of terrorist attacks including the bombing of the Israeli Embassy
in Kensington Palace Gardens and the IRA bombing of the City of London. Because
of a chain of incompetence within MI5, Shayler alleged, these warnings were not
acted upon, resulting in avoidable injury and loss of life.

"I'm not a spy and I'm not a traitor," says Shayler. His words are measured and
inflected, like a mantra or confession of faith. "I'm not a spy and I'm not a
traitor. I simply raised issues that I believe are of great importance to the
nation. If I had wanted to be a traitor, it would have been very easy for me to
do it while I was in MI5. I could have sold information for millions of pounds
and nobody would have been any the wiser. I didn't do that because I believe in
standing up for what I believe in."

The Government, however, takes a dim view of Shayler's patriotic principles and
has pursued him with the full weight of international law. After a year on the
run, when they buried themselves in rural France, Shayler and Machon were
tracked down to Paris where he was appearing on the David Frost breakfast
programme. Shayler was watching Middlesbrough play on satellite television when
he was arrested. Two months in prison gave him plenty of time to consider his
position, and he paces his argument like a marathon runner who knows every inch
of the track. Occasionally, however, he gathers a head of outrage that sends him
pumping for the finishing line.

"At one point," he says, pink with indignation, "it looked like I was going to
be extradited and General Pinochet wasn't. Jack Straw stood up and said that
they were thinking about sending Pinochet back to Chile on compassionate
grounds. I read that in a French newspaper, in a French prison, and I was
thinking 'this is absolutely ridiculous'. This is a man who has murdered and
tortured thousands of people. I have written a bloody newspaper article and he
Straw is going for me and not for this other guy. IRA prisoners are being
released, people who have been in campaigns to murder people, and yet I'm being
hounded for telling the truth."

David Shayler hardly fits the perceived idea of a secret agent. Born in
Middlesbrough and educated at state schools and Dundee University, he was part
of MI5's redbrick recruitment drive, a post-Cold-War initiative to democratise
the Security Service. He applied for the job through the careers pages of The
Independent in 1990. "Are you waiting for Godot?" ran the enigmatic
advertisement, which stressed the need for people with interviewing and
analytical skills. Shayler, who had previously failed to complete The Sunday
Times graduate training programme, thought that he was applying for a job in
newspapers. In the course of his second interview, he explained how, as editor
of his university newspaper, he had courted controversy by publishing the banned
text of Spycatcher. This information, which might have given less subtle minds
pause for thought, did not deter his future employers.

Shayler rose, not rapidly, but respectably through the ranks. He met Annie
Machon, a Cambridge graduate with an impeccable service record, in the MI5
library and, by 1997, the couple were sufficiently disaffected to leave and find
jobs "outside" as management consultants.

"The obvious question," says Machon, a neatly glamorous woman in ankle- length
fake fur, "is why didn't I blow the whistle when I had been there even longer
than Dave? I know exactly what he's talking about and so do a lot of other
people there. They all agree with him, but most people just say, 'Well, you
can't change the system,' and quietly leave to go on to other jobs. At the time,
I really didn't want Dave to go public. I knew what it would mean for us and I
asked him not to do it. But in the end," she says, threading her fingers round
Shayler's, "somebody has to stand up and be counted."

Shayler seems faintly bewildered by the drubbing he has received at the hands of
a free press. Much has been made of a quote by Shayler's old headmaster, who
remembers a clever boy who liked to "sail close to the wind".

"The papers just fell for this idea that because somebody was slightly
rebellious when he was 17, he must be Public Enemy Number One," says Shayler.
The same teacher, pressed for further details of Shayler's contribution to
school life, recalled a creditable performance as a madman in the school play.
"The Sunday Telegraph ran a piece saying 'Shayler was a madman' and when my mum,
who has been a Telegraph reader all her life, wrote to complain, they ran
another photo with the caption, 'Mummy's Boy'." Shayler spreads his curiously
cherubic hands, the soft, scrubbed paws of a choirboy, with nails gnawed to the
quick. "You just can't win."

If Shayler is bewildered by his media image, Machon is "bloody furious" about
it. "The name-calling makes me so indignant and it's so personal.  Dave is a
big, well-built chap, and this is used against him, as if a heavy build is
somehow morally dubious. It's medieval," she murmurs, gazing over to the flying
buttresses of Notre Dame, "on a par with saying a hunched back is a sign of
wickedness".

Certainly the articulate and easy-humoured man on display today bears no
resemblance to this shambling bogey of the Right. If he didn't know the rules of
engagement before, he certainly knows them now, so why on earth did he choose to
have his image flashed around the world in that filthy old football shirt? For
the first time this afternoon, Shayler seems rattled. "I did it for the obvious
reason that I wanted to stick two fingers up at 'them' and I thought that was
the best way of doing it." Annie sighs and pleads prettily for a spoonful of
Shayler's tiramisu. A woman less in love might have settled for a kick on the
shins.

Whatever else it is, this is one hell of a love story. It has been said that
Machon, the daughter of a Guernsey newspaper editor, is Shayler's best asset,
and while she spits fire at the idea, Shayler is the first to agree. "Without a
shadow of a doubt," he says, "I couldn't have done it without Annie.  We have
always had a very close relationship and this is the biggest and most
controversial thing that came into it. When I was just starting with the whole
idea of going public, Annie didn't want to know about it; not because she was
frightened for herself, but in case things went wrong, so that she couldn't say
anything that might damage me. That did put a bit of a strain on our
relationship, but the way it's worked out has made us much closer. By far the
worst thing about being in prison was being away from Annie. Not being able to
hold her or kiss her; it sounds incredibly corny, but it was like a physical
craving."

It is the kind of closeness few couples could withstand. Since Shayler's arrest,
the two go everywhere together, even to the shops for their morning baguette.
When they were hiding out in la France profonde, 30km from the nearest train
station, they often wouldn't see another soul for days on end.  "Fights were
just impossible," recalls Annie. "I'd stamp my foot and say, 'Right then, I'm
going . . . I'm going . . . up the lane.'"

Right now the big problem is finding reasons to get up in the morning.  There is
a limit to the number of romantic walks a couple can take, even in Paris.
Neither has a job and funds are running low; to be precise, they have pounds
5,000, a gift from Shayler's parents. Both speak competent French - Shayler's
improved dramatically while he was in prison - and Shayler talks about taking up
teaching English as a foreign language. They have found a cheap studio flat, but
it is a temporary measure; soon they will need to apply for a Carte de Sejour, a
permit to stay in France, and for that they will need proof of income.

At the moment, they give shape to the week by regular visits to one of Paris's
Internet cafes, where they correspond with friends and supporters in Britain,
and WH Smith, where they bone up on day-old news from home. There are almost
daily calls to Liberty, the British civil liberties organisation, which has
taken up Shayler's case. Parisians, Annie is pleased to report, have been
amazingly friendly, not at all the stand-offish stereotype, but following family
visits at Christmas the couple now find themselves feeling rather flat.  Shayler
misses Middlesbrough FC and proper fried breakfasts; Annie misses having her own
things about her. After their Pimlico flat was raided by Special Branch, their
worldly goods were parcelled out to friends and relatives around the UK.

"You just don't expect to be still living like students when you're in your
thirties," she says. "There is a basic human need to settle down, which you
don't really understand until it's denied you. And even though Dave is 'free' in
France, we're constantly looking over our shoulders.  You never know if you're
being followed. And even if you're not, the paranoia is exhausting. I think
people underestimate what fear does to you on a daily basis. There were huge
periods when we were absolutely terrified.

"The one good thing to come out of all this," jokes Machon, summoning feminine
vanity like a reminder of normality "is I've lost loads of weight."

The paranoia is understandable. While Britain may not want to do a deal with
Shayler, he remains vulnerable to other, possibly less scrupulous, agencies, who
could use the information he is party to. "Our lives are far more like something
from a Le Carre novel now than they were when we were working for MI5," says
Shayler, who started a novel of his own while he was in prison. He knows,
however, that any work of fiction with the faintest reference to his former life
will be injuncted before you can shake a Martini.

Meanwhile, his negotiations with the Government appear to have reached
stalemate. The Parliamentary Intelligence and Security Committee has refused to
hear his evidence and the Home Office has stated that while Shayler "insists on
immunity from prosecution as his price for settling the civil proceedings, an
agreement will not be possible". For Shayler's part, he has offered to return
the money he received from the Mail on Sunday, some pounds 40,000 in total
(hardly a sum to retire to Rio on). He also knows that any further revelations
will risk redoubled attempts for his extradition, but he is running out of
ideas. "I said no new revelations," he points out, "but that's not a position I
can maintain for ever."

For all his bravura, you feel that in his heart, Shayler still can't quite
believe that the Government doesn't care what he has to say; they just don't
want him to say it. And it is surely not unreasonable to expect more from a
party that ran its Opposition on a civil liberties ticket.  Most galling of all
is the knowledge that if he had made his disclosures before the Conservative
government tightened the Official Secrets Act in 1989, he could have cited the
public interest defence which existed then and was only repealed after strenuous
opposition from the Left.

"It is a matter of record that Tony Blair, Jack Straw and John Morris, the
Attorney General, all voted against removing the public interest defence
precisely because it would deter political whistleblowers," explains Shayler.
"So why have they changed their stance now they are in government? It seems
there is no longer any embarrassment threshold in these matters."

Still he hasn't given up hope - he still has his Middlesbrough FC season ticket.
For Machon, without such an incentive, the prospect is not so bright.  "I'm not
sure how easy we'd find it to settle in England now, after everything that has
happened," she says. "I'll fight for the right for Dave to go back, but I'm not
sure I want us to stay once we get there."

The point is, in any case, academic. "I can only assume," says Shayler, with
obvious hurt, "that the Government is quite happy to let me rot out here. I
suppose they think that maybe I'll just shut up and go away."

The problem, both literal and metaphysical, is that Shayler simply has nowhere
to go. So he might as well take the scenic route. He gathers Annie into him and
their shadows merge on the grey bank of the Seine as they stroll, slowly, back
the way they came.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              128 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 26, 1999

HOW CAN THEY CALL IT PEACE?;
THEY Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam still refuses to halt the release of
terrorist prisoners, despite a huge increase in 'punishment beatings'. Here a
Mail writer files a disturbing dispatch from the front line

BYLINE: Ross Benson

SECTION: Pg. 24

LENGTH: 2086 words


NORTHERN Ireland minister Adam Ingram was accused of 'dancing on the graves' of
innocent victims of IRA atrocities yesterday. He came under furious criticism as
he met relatives of the eight-strong IRA assassination squad killed in an Armagh
SAS ambush 12 years ago.

The security supremo brushed aside the protests of families whose loved ones
have been murdered and maimed during almost three decades of Republican violence
to spend an hour with IRA 'victims' of the Troubles.

What was regarded by victims of the paramilitaries as a gross act of appeasement
of terrorism, coincided with Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam again flatly
refusing to slow down or halt the release of terrorist prisoners - despite the
IRA's failure to abandon punishment beatings or surrender its huge arsenal.

She condemned the upsurge in punishment attacks as 'atrocious barbaric
behaviour' but sidestepped claims that paramilitary violence broke the Good
Friday peace accord.

And after meeting Loyalist and Republican paramilitary leaders at Stormont, Dr
Mowlam dismissed the growing political pressure for a tougher stand on the vexed
prisoner release issue.

THE LITTLE girl ran across the room to her father and pretended to kiss his
legs. 'Please, Daddy, take me swimming,' she asked.

Andrew Peden didn't reply and five-year-old Shaunie went back to changing her
doll's nappy. She knew the answer would be 'No'. It will always be 'No' because
the legs she was kissing are there only in her imagination.

The real ones, the ones a father needs to do the things every child expects to
do with a parent, were taken away from Andrew by a gang of Loyalist paramilitary
thugs, who blew them to pieces with a shotgun.

Surgeons took off what little was left.

All that remain are stumps, cut off high above the knees. 'You can't look at
them, can you?' his wife Linda asked.

Only little Shaunie seems unaffected by it all. Every now and again she nuzzles
up to the man smelling of iodine who is still her father. 'She's never shown any
sign of being frightened,' Linda said. 'She's never once said: "Daddy, where are
your legs?''.' She knows something terrible has happened and she asked Father
Christmas to give Daddy his legs back; but she never lets on that something is
wrong, even when her father tumbles over and screams in agony.

Instead, she pretends his legs are still there and she kisses the empty space
where they should be, 'to make them feel better'. In her innocence she is able
to deal with the horror.

What is certain, however, is that Northern Ireland cannot deal with it, not for
much longer. If this were one isolated incident it would be tragedy enough. But
it isn't. It is happening every night in this benighted Province.

'And that doesn't equate with peace at all,' says the RUC's Eddie Bell.

But 'peace' has nothing to do with what is going on. The Good Friday agreement
was supposed to put an end to the savagery which has consumed Northern Ireland
for the past three decades.

It hasn't. It hasn't even come close.

Northern Ireland is being turned into a gangster state. Last year there were 72
shootings and 170 mutilations.

Those are just the official figures and they do not include the victims who are
too frightened to come forward.

ADD THOSE in and you can double the number; and it is getting worse. There have
been ten shootings and twice as many beatings in the past three weeks.

At this rate 1999 is going to be the worst year since the Troubles began three
decades ago.

IRA hoodlums and Loyalist paramilitaries openly patrol the streets. They
maintain their rule with baseball bat, snooker cue, shotgun and pistol.

People are being knee-capped, kidnapped, tortured, maimed.

Labour MP Harry Barnes describes it as 'a Wild West-type situation, where
paramilitary enforcers strut around with guns sticking out of their trousers'.

Anyone who questions the gunmen's authority does so at their peril. Just being
born into the wrong family can be enough to endanger you.

Joseph McGartland, 26, had the misfortune to be the brother of an IRA informer.
When the hooded terrorists intent on retribution couldn't find Martin
McGartland, they lifted Joseph instead, took him from his home in West Belfast
to an abattoir, hung him upside down like a carcase and beat him with
scaffolding poles.

He sustained shattered legs and five broken ribs and lost four pints of blood.

Like Andrew Peden, he is lucky to be alive - if spending the rest of your life
confined to a wheelchair in constant, excruciating pain can be called living.

In any law-abiding society the perpetrators of such crimes would be hunted down
and put away. But in Northern Ireland the terrorists are being let out.

Under the terms of the Good Friday agreement, convicted killers are being
released from the Maze every day. They include Brighton bomber Patrick Magee and
Shankill bomber Sean Kelly.

Nearly 250 have so far been let free.

Hard men, all of them, who have mur-

dered without compunction or remorse and who have never renounced violence.

And it is violence which is again dragging Northern Ireland back, threatening
the peace process.

Yet peace, in any democratic sense, is not on the extremists' agenda. They are
armed, dangerous - and set on claiming the Province for their own.

This state of affairs was not what the Government promised when it signed the
peace accord, amid high hopes. On May 6 last year Tony Blair proclaimed that
'prisoners should not be released until the organisations to which they belong
have substantially decommissioned their weapons'.

He reiterated his position two weeks later when he wrote: 'There can be no
accelerated prisoner release unless organisations and individuals concerned have
clearly given up violence for good.' They have done nothing of the sort.

The IRA still has three tons of Semtex hidden away, along with five Sam-7
ground-to-air missiles, 100 rocket launchers and as many as 1,000 Kalashnikov
assault rifles.

Before Christmas, in a betrayal of everything it had agreed to, the IRA
arrogantly declared it had no intention of giving up its weapons.

Its counterparts on the other side of the sectarian divide have an equally
fearsome cache of weaponry. None of the major terror groups has surrendered so
much as a bullet. They continue to employ their arms to savage effect.

But such is the Government's blind determination to keep the 'peace' agreement
on track that it has allowed the release of the prisoners to continue.

It thought it was buying peace.

All it has done is unleash yet more terror into the community.

Tomorrow the House of Commons will debate Northern Ireland.

Tony Blair and the Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam can expect a rough ride.
The all-party unity which helped to push through the Good Friday agreement is
close to collapse and William Hague will demand an end to the release of any
more of the 200-or-so prisoners still in the Maze.

He would do well to ask also why the paramilitaries have been allowed to
'police' their own neighbourhoods and what the future holds for the RUC. If the
RUC is split up into a collection of local forces, as seems likely, it will
serve only to give still more power to the gunmen.

That, of course, is exactly what the IRA is aiming for. When it realised it
could not beat the Army or the Protestant paramilitaries by force, it declared a
ceasefire and entered into negotiations. It is now clear that this seeming
change of heart was a cynical tactic to gain its objectives by political means.

The ploy has proved stunningly successful, winning Sinn Fein international
recognition and isolating the Loyalist communities. Yet the illusion of decency
in which Sinn Fein has cloaked itself can no longer conceal the beast lurking in
the shadows. The rule is stark and brutal: support IRA-Sinn Fein or have your
knees blown off.

It is the same on the Loyalist estates where the UDA and UVF run the drugs,
collect the protection money and hold their communities in the thrall of fear.

'They are brutal animals with no principles,' said Vincent McKenna, a former IRA
intelligence officer who has rejected violence and runs a human rights group
called Families Against Intimidation.

Maureen Kearney agrees with that. Last year her 33-year-old son Andy bled to
death after the IRA shot his legs off - an act of cold-blooded brutality which
led Maureen to reappraise the values she had been brought up to believe in.

SHE lives in the diehard Republican estate of Twin-brook in Belfast, where just
speaking to an RUC officer is likely to result in a 'punishment beating'. Now,
at risk to her own life, she has started a campaign to embarrass the IRA and
bring her son's killer to trial.

'I am a nationalist and I never thought I would say this, but I would rather
have the RUC than "community policing'',' she declared.

Viewed from the safety of Britain, these atrocities take on a distant
irrelevance, as removed from the routines of ordinary family life as, say,
Kosovo. But they aren't. They are happening in a part of the United Kingdom and
it is ordinary people who are being destroyed.

PEACE? The doctors at Belfast's Royal Victoria Hospital, used to such sights,
said that Joseph McGart-land's injuries were the worst they had ever seen. He
still doesn't know why he was singled out.

'They never told me,' he said. 'I wasn't particularly close to my brother, I
didn't know where he was and I hadn't spoken to him for ages. I didn't know he
was in the IRA, never mind an informer.' That didn't matter because, as Andrew
Peden pointed out, 'these thugs are their own judge, jury and executioners'.

ALL HE did was give an acquaintance a lift home from a club. The man was a
member of the outlawed Ulster Defence Force who, after he was dropped off,
ordered the beating of a member of the rival Ulster Volunteer Force who was
having an affair with his wife.

Peden insists he has no connection with either Loyalist terror group. But the
UDF man had been seen getting out of Peden's car and that was enough.

Next morning he was due to take his wife, Shaunie and her brothers Gary, 15, and
13-year-old Drew on a weekend holiday in their caravan near the coast. They
never made it.

At 11.30am he was bundled into a vehicle by two UVF men and driven to a flat
where he was stripped of his trousers, blindfolded, tied with plastic cord and
beaten with iron rods. 'I threw myself at the window but it was double-glazed
and it didn't break,' he said.

By then there were ten men in the room and they kicked and cud-gelled him into
unconsciousness, laughing as they rained blows down. When he came to, they gave
him a pencil and paper to write a letter to Shaunie and her brothers.

'They made me write that the children would never see their father again,' he
recalled. At 10pm, 11 hours after they had lifted him, they dragged his battered
body into the back yard, shot his knees out and left him to bleed to death.

They hadn't even bothered to take him to a different neighbour-hood. Linda led
me to the window and pointed across the street to a patch of wasteland and
another two-storey, pebbledashed terrace house like her own, as grey and bleak
as the rain-soaked skies scudding over Glencairn estate.

'They ordered the man out who lived there,' she said. 'That's where they did
this to Andrew.' It was no more than 40 yards from her own home but you don't
have to travel far in the concrete ghettos of Belfast to run into danger.

'You need a strong marriage to get through this,' Linda said. 'It would have
been easier to walk out but I couldn't leave him, not now, not ever - and in a
way it has brought us closer.' But not like it was before. 'It's half a body
lying there. You never appreciate how important legs are until you lose them. I
cuddle him at night but it's not like cuddling a man - it's like cuddling a
child.' The men who maimed her husband are still out there - as are hundreds
like them. Everyone knows who they are but no one is saying.

When the RUC asks victims to identify their attackers, it comes up against 'a
wall of silence', as Eddie Bell puts it.

Little Shaunie is still young enough to pretend that this is not happening. But
it is. And it will continue as long as the Government refuses to admit that the
'peace process' is nothing more than a contemptible euphemism for unmitigated
terror.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              129 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                January 26, 1999

Yemen raises terror stakes

BYLINE: RORY CARROLL IN SANA'A AND IAN BLACK IN LONDON

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 808 words


YEMEN yesterday challenged Britain to show it was not a haven for terrorists by
extraditing the London-based Islamic extremist accused of sending Britons on a
bombing mission to the Arabian state.

In a letter to Tony Blair delivered to the British embassy in Sana'a, Yemen's
president Ali Abdullah Saleh demanded that Abu Hamza al-Masri be handed over to
face charges of sabotage.

But a defiant Mr Hamza, an imam at Finsbury Park mosque, north London, told the
Guardian last night that he would fight to stay in Britain and that the Yemeni
government had "a cheek" to request his extradition in the light of its own
record on human rights.

He denies sending followers to bomb Westerners in the southern port city of
Aden. His godson is one of the five Britons whose trial for intent to commit
murder opens in Aden tomorrow.

The letter to Mr Blair, handed to the British ambassador, Victor Henderson,
expressed "the discontent of the Yemeni government with the terrorist activities
led by the terrorist Abu Hamza Al-Masri and other people from British
territory", said the official Saba news agency.

Yemen was confident that Britain would "co-operate in efforts to combat
terrorism which threatens global security and stability".

Britain has no extradition treaty with Yemen but the Home Office said it would
consider the request on an ad hoc basis. Foreign Office sources indicated that
any pressure would be counter-productive.

"I'm not surprised," Mr Hamza said. "But in these countries as soon as anyone
talks against the government it means a death sentence. Ali Abdullah Saleh has a
big cheek to do this with his record of human rights, mishandling the economy
and forcing his people to resort to kidnapping just to have their basic rights.
The British have received many secret demands for my extradition from Egypt and
Algeria, but no one else has had the cheek to ask out loud."

Yemen's demand will be awkward for a government already embarrassed by
accusations from several Middle Eastern regimes that Britain is a haven for
Muslim fundamentalist extremists.

Sana'a may be calculating that its request will help force a prosecution of Mr
Hamza under legislation rushed through after last summer's Omagh bombing and the
terrorist attacks on two US embassies in Africa, which made it a criminal
offence in Britain to conspire to commit certain crimes abroad.

Whitehall sources indicated yesterday that Scotland Yard and the Crown
Prosecution Service had concluded that there was no case against the Egyptian
-born cleric, who lost both hands and an eye fighting the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan.

"He's tiptoed along the line of what is legal in the UK," said one official. "He
is very careful."

Mr Hamza has been under surveillance by the security services for some time. But
Whitehall sources admitted it would be difficult to obtain a conviction under a
controversial law which critics say could have meant the prosecution of Nelson
Mandela during the struggle against apartheid.

Mr Hamza said last night that he had been told by his solicitors that he had
done nothing to break the law.

"My job is not to provoke people," he insisted. "My job is to educate."

Yemen accuses Mr Hamza of being the link between the five arrested Britons and
Abu Hassan, the Islamic militant whose kidnapping of 16 tourists last month
ended in the deaths of four. The London cleric is also accused of masterminding
attacks in Egypt.

A senior Yemen official said the letter to Mr Blair vented frustation that Yemen
was paying the price for the killings by being branded lawless and seeing its
tourist industry collapse.

The arrest of the five Britons allegedly motivated Abu Hassan to kidnap tourists
to barter their release. A delegation of the men's families, a doctor and lawyer
are expected to fly from London to Sana'a today, and then to Aden, in time for
tomorrow's trial. Badr Basunaid, the suspects' lawyers, will seek an adjournment
to gain more time to prepare the defence.

The five men deny the charge and say their confessions were made after torture.

They are: Malik Nassar, aged 26, Sarmad Ahmed, 21, Shahid Butt, 33, all of
Birmingham; Mohsin Ghalain, 18, of London; and Ghulam Hussein, 25, of Luton. A
sixth suspect, Abdraham James, is thought to be an Algerian using a false French
passport.

In a separate development, diplomats and Yemen officials predicted Eddie Rosser,
aged 61, his wife Mary, 64, and the Koolspra family from Holland, would be freed
very soon. They were kidnapped on January 17 by the Shaif tribe who were seeking
the release of a relative jailed for allegedly murdering a shopkeeper.

A deal was believed to have been brokered on Sunday night after a visit from a
delegation of the Bakeel tribe, a federation to which the Shaif belong.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              130 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 26, 1999, Tuesday

Yemen seeks extradition of militant London imam

BYLINE: By Patrick Cockburn in Sanaa, and Gary Finn

SECTION: NEWS; Page 2

LENGTH: 552 words


YEMEN YESTERDAY asked Britain for the extradition of Abu Hamza al-Masri, the
militant Islamic cleric based in London, for carrying out armed attacks in
Yemen. Abu Hamza has admitted to contacts with the leader of the kidnappers who
last month killed four hostages, including three Britons.

The request came in a letter from the Yemeni President, Ali Abdullah Saleh to
Tony Blair, handed to Victor Henderson, the British ambassador in Sanaa.

According to the official news agency, it "included a request by the Yemeni
government to hand over the terrorist Abu Hamza al-Masri, who is residing in
London, to be tried on charges of carrying out terrorist activities in Yemen and
in several other Arab states."

A spokesman for the Home Office said it neither confirmed nor denied extradition
requests as a matter of course.

Earlier a senior Yemeni official expressed his anger over Britain's behaviour to
Yemen since the killing of the hostages on 28 December. "Yemen is being
subjected to a stream of smears in the mass media instigated by the Foreign
Office," he said.

He was particularly enraged by the lack of British government action against Abu
Hamza, the head of the Supporters of Sharia (Islamic law) group based in
Finsbury Park, north London, who says he isan Afghan war veteran who lost his
hands in a mine explosion. The sheikh had just said on the Arab satellite
television channel al-Jezira, widely watched in Yemen, that foreign visitors to
the country were "like dumb animals; whoever imprisons them can do what he likes
with them". He said Yemen was not a Muslim state because it was not based on the
Sharia. By his own account Abu Hamza had told the kidnappers to "do all you can
to preserve the blood of Muslims", implying that it was acceptable to kill
Christians.

The exact relationship between Abu Hamza, with his calls for holy war, the five
British Muslims on trial this week in Aden for planning armed attacks and Abu
Hassan, the leader of the kidnap gang who killed the four tourists, is still
unclear. But to the Yemeni government it looks like a plot instigated from
Britain with the knowledge of British intelligence.

"Abu Hamza did not hide his intelligence connections," said the Yemeni official.
"Soon you will not be able to tell the difference between London and Tehran as
centres for Islamic militants ."

He pointed to the telephone conversation, made at the time of the kidnapping,
between Abu Hamza in London and Abu Hassan in his mountain hideout, as evidence
of Abu Hamza's role in the hostage-taking. He added that the involvement of the
British group facing trial in Aden was underlined by the fact that one of them,
Mohsin Ghalain, is Abu Hamza's step-son and his full son, Mohammed Mustapha
Kamil, is on the run in Yemen.

Abu Hamza said last night he was not worried by the extradition request.  "The
Yemenis have a big cheek to ask for my extradition here", he said.

"Their economic policy in Yemen has forced the Yemeni people to resort to
kidnapping to get their basic rights, so the situation is of their own making."
He said it was "hypocritical to say the least to allow Salman Rushdie to publish
what he calls a dream but then persecute the group Supporters of Sharia for
simply reporting true events abroad.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              131 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 26, 1999

Yemen in move to extradite 'terrorist'

BYLINE: James Lyons

SECTION: News, Pg.10

LENGTH: 311 words




A MILITANT Islamic leader based in Britain yesterday vowed to fight a bid to
extradite him to Yemen for trial on charges of terrorism.

Yemeni government officials said Abu Hamza al-Masry, head of the London- based
Supporters of Sharia (Islamic law), was wanted on suspicion of sabotage and
called for Britain to hand him over.

President Ali Abdullah Saleh asked for Prime Minister Tony Blair's help in
securing Hamza's extradition at a meeting with British ambassador Vic Henderson
yesterday.

President Saleh alleged that Hamza was directing terrorist activities from
Britain.

Mr Henderson refused to comment on the meeting and a spokeswoman for the Home
Office, which processes extradition requests, said it was Government policy
never to confirm or deny whether a request had been made.

Hamza has admitted links to the Moslem group whose kidnapping of 16 Westerners
ended in the death of three Britons last month.

His 18-year-old stepson is among five British Moslems already facing terrorist
charges in the Yemen over the kidnappings last month.

Hamza, who claims he lost both hands fighting in the Afghan war, said he would
not receive a fair trial in Yemen.

''If the President wants you there will be no fair trial, he has already tried
you,'' he said.

The extradition move came as relatives of the five Britons held in Yemen
prepared to fly out for their first court appearance.

The charity which a kidnapped West couple were working for in Yemen when taken
hostage is confident they will be released.

Eddie and Mary Rosser from Lechlade in Gloucestershire were seized eight days
ago while working for the Worldwide Services charity of the Netherlands.

Last night a spokesman for the charity said she was hopeful that they would be
released soon. She said: "We understand that they are being cared for very
nicely."


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              132 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          January 27, 1999, Wednesday

FAMILIES FLY IN WITH EXPERTS FOR TRIAL OF YEMEN TERROR SUSPECTS

BYLINE: By Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 400 words


Relatives of the five British terrorist suspects held in the Yemen were allowed
into the Middle Eastern state without visas last night, hours before the men's
trial was due to start.

The eight-strong delegation, including a doctor, lawyer, the leader of Britain's
Muslim parliament, and relatives, hoped to meet the five men before the trial
began.

Defence lawyers said they will make a fresh plea for an adjournment if the
doctor says the men are not physically or mentally fit for trial.

The British lawyer fighting the case in London, Mr Rashad Yaqoob, said: "We
wanted an adjournment to give us enough time to prepare the defence. We have had
one day and that is not time for a minor defence, let alone these charges."

The Yemeni legal team only met the suspects at the weekend and say they have not
been given time to prepare properly.

Birmingham men Samad Ahmed (21), from Yardley, Malik Nassar (26) and Shahid Butt
(33), both from Small Heath, have been charged with being associated with armed
groups, planning to commit murder and possessing weapons in connection with the
kidnapping of 16 Westerners in December.

Ghulam Hussein (25), from Luton, and Mohsin Ghalain (18), from London, face the
same charges.

Mr Yaqoob said the five, who have pleaded not guilty, all claim they were
tortured into signing confessions and could be examined by pathologist Mr
Christopher Milroy, an expert in spotting symptoms of ill-treatment, who flew
out with the delegation.

The British delegation includes Mrs Monica Davis, the wife of Hussein, and his
sister Zafran Begum, from Luton, Beds, and Butt's brother, Rashid.

Meanwhile, Mr Derek Fatchett, Minister for Foreign and Commonwealth Affairs,
revealed Britain could put alleged extremists on trial for attacks committed
abroad.

He was speaking after Yemeni authorities called on Britain to extradite North
London-based Sheik Abu Hamza al-Masry.

Yemen accuses Abu Hamza, an Egyptian-born Muslim fundamentalist who has lived in
Britain for 20 years, of orchestrating extremist attacks on its territory and
sending the five Britons to the Yemen in December.

Hamza, whose group Supporters of Sharia advocates Islamic religious government,
has denied any connection with the men's activities. Hamza, whose stepson is
Ghalain, one of the accused, has vowed to fight any attempt to extradite him to
the Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              133 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                January 27, 1999

Action urged to combat hackers threat;Warning of cyber terrorism

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 611 words


CYBER terrorists who launch attacks against Britain's financial, defence and
electricity networks will face instant electronic retaliation under plans being
considered by Ministers.

The Government is under pressure to boost the country's defences against the
threat of what experts dub information warfare, amid fears that vital services
could be sabotaged at the stroke of a keyboard from thousands of miles away.

Home Secretary Jack Straw is to take charge of a Whitehall programme, involving
the private sector, to assess the threat and identify ways of countering it.

Ministry of Defence intelligence specialists are concentrating their attentions
on organisations and countries deemed to have an interest in the economic
destabilisation of the West and which have access to global electronic
communication systems such as the Internet.

"The spread of technology means someone with a computer on the other side of the
world could potentially shut-down BT's phone network or cause chaos with the air
traffic control system. This is a major worry, and one we are taking very
seriously," a senior Whitehall source said.

Ministers are understood to be considering the creation of a top-level committee
to manage Britain's response, and are examining the possibility of authorising
covert counter-attacks against hackers who seek to tamper with British systems.

Technology would allow monitors who detect an attempt to penetrate a system such
as the national grid to strike back, electronically disabling the attacker's
computer.

American President Bill Clinton declared information warfare to be a matter of
national security and has called for the creation of a national infrastructure
protection plan.

But MPs here fear the Government is not doing enough to prepare against what
experts believe represents the next generation of international terrorism.

Beckenham Tory MP Jacqui Lait has challenged Ministers to alert the public to
the danger. In America, the Pentagon has set up a series of Internet web sites
which are recording 300 visits a day.

"The best advice is that the most effective means of defence is open public
discussion. The Government appears intent on playing it low-key and claims we
are not so vulnerable. That is an ostrich-like attitude," she said.

However, a Cabinet Office spokesman said: "We take information warfare very
seriously."

British companies are reticent to discuss what steps they have taken in detail,
and are wary of claiming invincibility for fear of setting hackers a challenge.
But 200 blue chip firms have set up the Information Security Forum to pool
resources and liaise with Government.

A spokesman for Scottish Power said: "We are aware of the problem. We are never
complacent."

Intelligence experts believe China and Iraq are among the states behind a wave
of computer attacks on Western systems, including defence, communication, power
and nuclear installations.

"There are hundreds of attempts daily at unauthorised intrusions. Some is just
vandalism, some of it is industrial espionage and some amounts to reconnaissance
for possible future attacks," one source said.

A successful attack on major Wall Street institutions, for example, could
collapse global financial markets which depend on computers to carry out
electronic trade worth billions a day.

Or it could be as simple as ordering the shut-down of a vital telecommunication
network, such as the global positioning satellites. Another could involve
altering by a single digit the detailed, computer-generated specifications for a
new jet or missile, causing massive failure when it is launched.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 27, 1999, Wednesday

Trial begins for Britons on terror charges

BYLINE: By Patrick Cockburn in Aden

SECTION: NEWS; Page 14

LENGTH: 569 words


IN A SMALL white court building, prominent against the red lava cliffs on Aden's
foreshore, five Britons stand trial this morning accused of planning a reign of
terror in the city by attacking the main hotel, the British Consulate and a
church.

Arrested in the two dowdy hotels in Aden on 24 December the five defendants,
with another man travelling on an Algerian passport, are portrayed in Britain as
innocent victims, tortured into confessions by the Yemeni police, and in Yemen
as fanatical Islamic terrorists, acting on orders from London.

This is not an easy case to understand. It is heavily influenced by the
confrontation between Britain and Yemen over the bloody outcome of the
kidnapping of 16 tourists east of Aden last month. Three Britons and an
Australian were killed during a rescue attempt by the Yemeni army.

The trial also takes place against a background of Yemeni government fury at the
presence in Britain of Abu Hamza al-Masri, who preaches at a London mosque and
is the leader of the Supporters of the Sharia (Islamic Law) group. One of the
defendants, Mohsin Ghalain, 18, is Mr Masri's stepson and his full son, Mohammed
Mustapha Kamil, is on the run in Yemen.

Mr Masri is the one uncontested link between the five Britons and Abu Hassan,
the leader of the kidnappers. In the hours before he killed the hostages Abu
Hassan used his mobile phone to ring the sheikh in London for advice. By his own
admission Mr Masri told him that he should "spare Muslim blood", coming close to
instructing him to kill the non-Muslim tourists.

None of this is in the interests of the men on trial - Malek Nasser Harhra, 26,
Samad Ahmed, 21, Shahid Butt, 33, of Birmingham, Ghulum Hussein, 25, of Luton
and Mohsin Ghalain, 18, of London - all of whom were staying in hotels in Aden
in December. They protest that they were there to study Arabic and one of them
was planning to get married.

Their first actions gave no ground for suspicion. On 19 December three of them
checked into a hotel called al-Wafa. They almost immediately checked out. Days
later they were back and the same night police burst into the hotel with a
picture of Mohsin Ghalain. The others were arrested in another hotel. All the
defendants then disappeared from view until early January. The British Embassy
in Sanaa was not told what had happened.

When Abu Hassan kidnapped the tourists it seemed like one more Yemeni kidnapping
of foreigners of which there have been over a hundred cases.  None had been
killed or injured. He demanded the release of two well known Islamic dissidents,
but not the five Britons arrested earlier. If these men were really an assault
team of Abu Hassan's group it is strange that he did not ask for their freedom.

The police said they had found a grenade and explosives in the al-Wafa hotel as
well as mines and two rockets in a car being used by the Britons.  They produced
a confession from Malik Nasser, since retracted, saying that Abu Hassan had
given them an arsenal of weapons.

So far the Britons have only been charged in general terms with planning killing
and explosions. Today their lawyer, Badr Basunaid, will ask for an adjournment
to consider the detailed charges.

"There is a string connecting Abu Hamza to both the kidnappers and the men on
trial," said one Yemeni observer. "The prosecution may be trying to turn it into
a rope."


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              135 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          January 27, 1999, Wednesday

Trial begins for Britons on terror charges

BYLINE: By Patrick Cockburn in Aden

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 396 words


IN A SMALL white court building, prominent against the red lava cliffs on Aden's
foreshore, five Britons stand trial this morning accused of planning a reign of
terror in the city by attacking the main hotel, the British Consulate and a
church.

Arrested in Aden on 24 December the five defendants, with another man travelling
on an Algerian passport, are portrayed in Britain as innocent victims, tortured
into confessions by the Yemeni police, and in Yemen as fanatical Islamic
terrorists, acting on orders from London.

This is not an easy case to understand. It is heavily influenced by the
confrontation between Britain and Yemen over the bloody outcome of the
kidnapping of 16 tourists east of Aden last month. Three Britons and an
Australian were killed during a rescue attempt by the Yemeni army.

The trial also takes place against a background of Yemeni government fury at the
presence in Britain of Abu Hamza al-Masri, who preaches at a London mosque and
is the leader of the Supporters of the Sharia (Islamic Law) group. One of the
defendants, Mohsin Ghalain, 18, is Mr Masri's stepson and his full son, Mohammed
Mustapha Kamil, is on the run in Yemen.

Mr Masri is the one uncontested link between the five Britons and Abu Hassan,
the leader of the kidnappers. In the hours before he killed the hostages Abu
Hassan used his mobile phone to ring the sheikh in London for advice.

None of this is in the interests of the men on trial - Malek Nasser Harhra, 26,
Samad Ahmed, 21, Shahid Butt, 33, of Birmingham, Ghulum Hussein, 25, of Luton
and Mohsin Ghalain, 18, of London - all of whom were staying in hotels in Aden
in December. They protest that they were there to study Arabic and one of them
was planning to get married.

When Abu Hassan kidnapped the tourists it seemed to be one more Yemeni
kidnapping of foreigners, of which there have been over a hundred cases. No one
had been killed or injured. He demanded the release of two well known Islamic
dissidents, but not the five Britons arrested earlier.  If these men were really
an assault team of Abu Hassan's group it is strange that he did not ask for
their freedom.

So far the Britons have only been charged in general terms with planning killing
and explosions.

Today their lawyer, Badr Basunaid, will ask for an adjournment to consider the
detailed charges.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              136 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          January 27, 1999, Wednesday

Terror suspects may be tried in Britain

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 158 words


Extremists suspected of planning terrorist attacks abroad could be put on trial
in Britain, a government minister said yesterday. Twenty-four hours after Yemen
requested the extradition of Sheikh Abu Hamza al-Masri, a London-based cleric,
Derek Fatchett, a Foreign Office Minister, told Arab states that new legislation
had been passed to stop Britain becoming a centre for overseas terrorists.

Mr Fatchett said: "If there is enough evidence against an individual that they
are in breach of UK laws, then, yes, those individuals will be charged. We are
determined to use the legislation if the need is proven and the evidence is
strong. London will not become a base for terrorism."

The Foreign Office said no formal request for Sheikh Hamza's extradition had
been received from President Ali Abdullah Saleh, of Yemen despite reports that
he had sent a letter to Tony Blair requesting that the cleric be sent to stand
trial.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 28, 1999, Thursday

NEW YEMEN PLOT ARRESTS

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 617 words


Two Birmingham men alleged to be part of a terrorist gang which aimed to cause
mayhem and sabotage in the Yemen were behind bars last night.

They were arrested as three other alleged gang members from Birmingham went on
trial in the Yemen with prosecutors demanding the death sentence.

The trial opened amid chaotic scenes with the men claiming they had been
tortured and sexually abused.

But prosecutors said the men conspired to form "an armed gang to carry out a
criminal plan to threaten the security of Yemen and carry out terrorist acts of
killing, sabotage and bombings".

The new arrests included Mustapha Khamil (17), the son of Abu Hamza al-Masri,
the London-based religious fanatic who is accused of sending the men on their
terrorist mission.

Also arrested were three Britons, two believed to be from Birmingham, and two
Algerians.

A Yemen Interior Ministry official said: "Security forces in Shabwa arrested the
remaining members of the extremist terrorist gang who have remained at large."

As details of the arrests emerged, the three other Birmingham men were brought
in handcuffs before a court in Aden.

Shahid Butt (33), Malik Nassar Harhra (26), both from Small Heath, and Samad
Ahmed (21), from Yardley, appeared in court escorted by soldiers.

They showed bruising on their bodies and shouted that they had been tortured.

Ahmed yelled: "We are being treated like animals in jail." Harhra, pulling up
the sleeve of his dirty shirt to show bruises on his arm, said: "Look, look, I
was beaten!"

Another prisoner said: "We have been hung upside down, we have been
electrocuted, we have been beaten, we have been sexually assaulted."

The three men have been jointly charged with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, and
Ghulam Hussein (25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Luovres (30), with plotting
terrorism and murder, which they deny.

The prosecution claimed the six suspects arrived in Yemen in July and began
weapons training in December at a military camp in the southern province of
Shabwa.

The prosecutor said the group planned to attack an Aden hotel on New Year's Eve,
a restaurant, a church and a United Nations office.

They were trained by Zein Al-Abidine al-Mihdar, the leader of Islamic militants
charged with kidnapping 16 Westerners and killing four of them, the prosecutor
claimed.

He demanded the maximum penalty, which is the death sentence.

The families of the Birmingham men claim they can prove at least two of the
three did not travel to the Yemen until Christmas. Defence lawyers say the men
are innocent and will not get a fair trial. They were granted an adjournment
until Saturday to

prepare their case.

Mr Rashad Yaqoob, the British lawyer for the five men facing trial, said he had
heard reports two of the three men arrested yesterday may be from Birmingham.
The Foreign Office said they were unable to release any details until relatives
had been traced.

Mr Yaqoob said: "A three-day adjournment is more than we had hoped for, but it
is not nearly enough to prepare a proper defence. We are very worried and
outraged that they will not receive a fair trial."

Some of the defendants' relatives described the trial as a joke.

"We want justice, transparency and fairness. We are confident they are
innocent," said the leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain, Mr
Ghayasuddin Siddiqui.

"They came to Yemen as tourists. They have nothing to do with terrorist groups."

In a separate development, Yemeni tribesmen kidnapped three Germans who were
taken to al-Jawf in northern Yemen, where an elderly British couple and a Dutch
family, kidnapped on January 17, were being held.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Torture claims: The Birmingham suspects in court in Aden yesterday.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              138 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 28, 1999, Thursday

British terror suspects seized in Yemen

BYLINE: By Patrick Cockburn in Aden

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 838 words


YEMENI SECURITY forces arrested three more Britons yesterday, one of whom is the
son of Abu Hamza al-Masri, the militant Islamic cleric from Finsbury Park.  The
Interior Ministry claimed that the three were linked to the five other Britons
and one Algerian, whose trial on charges of planning a bombing campaign in the
city opened yesterday.

The government said the three men were among six fugitives who had been hunted
down and surrounded in the Shabwa mountains in eastern Yemen on Tuesday.

They finally surrendered to security forces yesterday in a dramatic development
that coincided almost precisely with the opening of the trial.

The government alleged that the new detainees belong to the same group as the
five Britons and one Algerian in court. Of the other people detained yesterday,
two were Algerian and one Yemeni. The two other Britons were named by Yemeni
authorities as Shaz Nabi and Ayyad Hussein.

The Yemeni government has been searching the country for Mohammed Mustapha
Kamil, Mr Masri's 17-year-old son, ever since the British group was arrested in
Aden last month. Yemen is demanding the extradition of Mr Masri from Britain on
terrorism charges, seeing him as the mastermind behind a plot to bomb hotels, a
church and the British consulate in Aden.

It also believes that Mr Masri was involved in the kidnap of 16 foreign tourists
in Yemen last month, which led to the killing of three Britons and an
Australian.

The trial opened with raucous courtroom scenes in which the accused shouted that
they had been repeatedly tortured after their arrest in two downtown hotels in
Aden on 24 December. "They have been treating us like animals," shouted Samad
Ahmed, a 21-year-old student from Kingston University, rolling up the sleeves of
his shirt to show dark bruises on both arms as he entered the dock. "Like
animals," he repeated.

He and the other four Britons - Ghulam Hussein, 25, Mohsin Ghalain, 18, Shahid
Butt, 33, and Malik Nasser Harhra, 26, - along with James Patrick Luovres, 30,
an Algerian living in France, held an impromptu press conference with reporters
in the moments before the judge entered the courtroom overlooking Aden's
seashore.

Mr Ghalain, a student living in Shepherd's Bush, said: "For the first five days
they wouldn't let us sleep. They battered us until we woke up." He said he was
sexually abused. Mr Luovres, who sought political asylum from Algeria in France,
said: "They made me sit on a bottle of Coca-Cola."

All the men looked apprehensive, but contemptuous of the proceedings as the
prosecutor read out the charges in Arabic, which were haltingly rendered into
English by an elderly translator. Of the Britons, only Mr Harhra, a student at
London University, said he spoke some Arabic, but not very well. When the other
defendants looked perplexed as the translator stumbled over a word, Mr Harhra
grimaced and told them: "They just said we could be executed."

Before the trial was adjourned for three days so that the defence could consider
the detailed charges, the prosecution said its case rested on the confessions of
the accused, explosives found in their possession and three Yemeni witnesses.
The accused all pleaded not guilty and said that their confessions had been
extracted under torture.

Before the beginning of the trial an official entered the court carrying four
hold-alls. From these he took five large, brown-coloured Russian- made plastic
anti-tank mines, slabs of TNT with fuses, as well as computers and mobile phones
which he placed neatly on a table in front of the judge.

The prosecution case is that Mr Harhra, who is of Yemeni origin, first entered
Yemen last July to arrange for the others to follow him in December.  They did
so on 19 December and checked into the al-Wafa Hotel, in Aden before moving to a
villa. They then travelled to Shabwa province east of Aden for military
training. Later Mr Ghalain and Mr Harhra met Abu Hassan, the leader of the group
which later kidnapped the tourists, and were given military equipment by him.

The prosecution also charged the men with belonging to Mr Masri's group, the
Supporters of the Sharia, "which exports terrorism to other countries".  The
defence lawyer Badr Basunaid immediately protested, saying: "Abu Hamza is not on
trial. He is nothing to do with this case."

After the charges were read all the defendants stood up to deny them.  As the
men were led out of the dock down a narrow stairs they shouted "bogus charges"
and "kangaroo court". The judge said they should be examined by a doctor, moved
to another prison and could see their families.

The Yemeni government is suspicious of the fact that one of the defendants,
Mohsin Ghalain, is Mr Masri's stepson, and a second defendant, Mr Luovres is
engaged to Mr Masri's sister-in-law Suzanne.

Together with Mr Masri's son who was arrested yesterday, three of the eight
British prisoners now being held in Yemen have a family link to the
controversial cleric.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              139 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 28, 1999

Army's mean machine;
 DEADLY ATTACK HELICOPTER WILL SOON BE FAMILIAR SIGHT IN WEST SKIES

SECTION: News, Pg.18

LENGTH: 380 words




IT'S a lean, mean killing machine and it's heading our way. The Apache Longbow
owes its name to a warlike tribe of American Indians and a weapon which helped
Henry V defeat the French at Agincourt.

One can only guess at the terror it would have wrought had it turned up in 19th
Century Arizona or 15th-Century France.

But this snarling, snub-nosed attack helicopter is already combat-proven.

Millions sat glued to their television screens watching Apaches clinically
destroy Saddam Hussein's armour during the Gulf War in 1991.

Even the sardonic TV presenter Jeremy Clarkson was moved to raptures over the
"big boy's toy" after a presentation by U.S. pilots in Texas.

It is capable of 230 mph and its radar and communications equipment is
sophisticated enough for it to destroy enemy targets from miles away while
hovering behind buildings or trees.

In the nose is a 30 mm chain gun, capable of ripping open a tank like a tin can.
It also carries 16 Hellfire missiles which can seek out a target unaided.

It can be loaded with 76 folding-fin aerial rockets, extra Stinger or Sidewinder
missiles, or even bombs.

While the heavy thump-thump of the Huey's rotor blades became an anthem of the
Vietnam war, the Apache's efficient drone will soon become unmistakable to
families in and around Salisbury.

Sixty-seven of the machines have been ordered for the British Army and much of
the training will take place at Middle Wallop, the home of the Army Air Corps on
the Wiltshire-Hampshire border.

Apaches will be as familiar a sight as the Lynx and Gazelle helicopters that now
fill the crowded skies above south Wiltshire.

Westland of Yeovil and Rolls-Royce of Bristol each have a major stake in the 10
billion Apache programme, in which a total of 160 UK firms are set to share.

The first machines are due to enter British Army service in March or April next
year. Middle Wallop's key role in the Apache programme is a reflection of the
Salisbury area's growing importance in helicopter warfare.

This week it was announced that the headquarters of Britain's new Joint
Helicopter Command will be located at Wilton, three miles from the city.

It will comprise 354 aircraft, employ more than 12,000 and cost more than 300
million a year.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              140 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            January 29, 1999, Friday

A HOLY WAR FROM SMALL HEATH TO AFGHANISTAN;
 JASON BEATTIE PUTS THE CASE ALLEGING ISLAMIC INVOLVEMENT IN TERRORISM W
ORLDWIDE.

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1155 words


The story of the British men charged with terrorist offences in Yemen starts not
in a Birmingham mosque but in a remote mountain hideaway in the mountains of
Afghanistan.

It is from this spartan base that a multi-millionaire zealot called Osama bin
Laden oversees his privately-funded holy war against the west.

Bin Laden can call on between 3,000 and 5,000 Islamic extremists in a dozen
countries to carry out attacks under his umbrella organisation called Al Qaida
(The Base).

His fingerprints can be found on the bombing of the American embassy in Kenya,
the attack on the Planet Hollywood restaurant in South Africa and, most
recently, the alleged Christmas bomb plot in Yemen.

Caught up in this web of subterfuge are a rogue cleric in London, the leader of
an Islamic military camp in Yemen and an underground Muslim movement centred on
British mosques.

The connections are not always clear but, like streamers around a Maypole,
everything can be traced back to the fanatic in Al Qaida.

Osama bin Laden is a wealthy Saudi who inherited a pounds 200 million fortune
from his late father's construction business. He first came to the attention of
the FBI after he was named as the bankroller behind an alleged plot to
assassinate President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. The FBI stepped up its
surveillance after bin Laden was implicated in the 1996 bombings of an American
army base in Saudi Arabia in which two soldiers died.

In August 1998 bin Laden took the Jihad to new extremes with the bombings of the
American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Two suspects in the Nairobi bombings, including a Yemeni called Kahlid Salim,
were swiftly extradited from Kenya to the United States.

On the 20th of the same month President Clinton retaliated with cruise missile
attacks on bin Laden's training bases in Afghanistan and a chemical factory in
Sudan.

The underground Islamic militants in turn hit back with the bombing of a Planet
Hollywood restaurant in Cape Town on August 26 which killed one man and injured
eight Britons.

A little-known group of Muslim extremists, which may be connected to bin Laden,
called Muslims Against Global Oppression claimed responsibility for the attack.
Bin Laden also has support among the British Muslim community most noticeably
from the claw-handed cleric Abu Hamza al Masri who preaches at the Finsbury Park
mosque in north London.

Abu Hamza is quoted as saying of bin Laden: "He is a member of the struggle. I
support him and it would be a honour to meet him."

From his London base Abu Hamza, who claims he lost his hands while with the
Mujahadeen in Afghanistan, promotes his Supporters of Shariah group which
advocates the rule of Islamic law.

Yesterday, Abu Hamza was named in court as the mastermind behind the Christmas
bombing campaign against British targets in Yemen.

Already charged with this plot are five British men, three of whom (Shahid Butt,
Malik Nassar Harhra and Samad Ahmed) come from Birmingham.

In a dramatic turn of events, the Yemen authorities on Wednesday arrested three
more British suspects at a training camp including Abu Hamza's son, Mustapha
Khamil, and two more men from Birmingham, Shaz Nabi and Ayub Hussein.

The Yemeni government is suspicious that one of the defendants, Moshim Ghalain,
is Hamza's stepson and another, Patrick Luovres from Algeria, is engaged to
Hamza's sister in law.

The Yemeni prosecution team claim the defendants were involved in a plot,
hatched at Abu Hamza's London offices, to bomb the British Consulate, the
Anglican Church, the Movenpick Hotel, a nightclub and a hotel used by US
soldiers.

The prosecution also produced evidence linking Hamza and his supporters to Abu
Hassan, a militant fundamentalist based in Yemen, who has direct contact with
Osama bin Laden.

Taking pride of place among the rocket-launchers, blocks of explosives and
satellite phones on display in the court room was a bundle of video tapes
produced by the Supporters of Shariah.

According to the prosecution, Malik Nassar, on Hamza's orders, arrived in July
to lay the foundations for the bombing campaign. He rented a villa in Aden which
would be the base for those recruited from the Muslim community in Britain to
receive training.

He was then joined by the others, some of whom were trained and armed at Abu
Hassan's training camp in the Shabwah province.

Abu Hassan allegedly gave the men an arsenal of terrorist equipment including
five anti-tank mines, two rocket launchers and a substantial amount of TNT
explosives.

It was while returning from Hassan's camp with these armaments that they jumped
a routine road-block sparking a massive security alert which led to their arrest
at two different hotels on December 23.

Five days later Abu Hassan's Abyan Islamic Army kidnapped 16 Western tourists in
a remote region of Yemen.

It is not certain whether the kidnapping of the British tourists was retaliation
for the arrests or, as the FBI believe, for the US air strikes on Iraq earlier
that month but it is claimed Abu Hamza spoke directly to Abu Hassan, whom he has
known for several years, shortly before the shoot-out began.

United States intelligence believes bin Laden has been deeply involved in the
funding and training of Islamic extremists in the Yemen for several years.

On December 25, Osama bin Laden denounced "the Jews and the crusaders,
especially the Americans and British who did not care about the rights of any
child, elderly man or woman in Iraq".

He said: "The British and American people have widely voiced their support for
their leaders' decision to attack Iraq. Every Muslim should confront and fight
them. Anything that can be taken from them by force is a prize for the Muslims."

It appears his message has been heard from as far away as Small Heath.

TOMORROW: The case for the defence.

TIMETABLE OF TERROR

July 1998 - Malik Nassar, from Birmingham, arrives in the Yemen allegedly to
prepare for a bombing plot against British targets.

August 7 - Bombings of American Embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. More than 560
killed and 5,000 injured.

August 20 - Clinton orders cruise missile attacks against Muslim terrorist bases
in Afghanistan and Sudan.

August 26 - Muslims claim responsibility for bombing of Planet Hollywood
restaurant in Cape Town which killed one man and left 27 injured.

December 16 - Clinton launches operation Desert Fox against Iraq.

December 23 - Five Britons, including three from Birmingham, arrested on
terrorist charges in Yemen.

December 28 - 16 Western hostages kidnapped in Yemen and two days later four of
them were killed in a botched rescued attempt by the Yemeni security forces when
the hostages were used as human shields during a gun battle.

January 27 - Trial begins of five Britons in Yemen. On same day authorities
announced the arrest of three more Britons.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              141 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 29, 1999, Friday

DRIVEN OUT BY BRITISH RACE THUGS;
 FATHER AND SON FLEE ANTI-IRISH TERROR CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Neil Leslie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words


By NEIL LESLIE

A FATHER has hit out at rising anti-Irish feeling in Britain after racists drove
him and his eight-year-old son from their home.

Tony Boland was forced to flee his house in Manchester after it was destroyed by
thugs who daubed racist slogans all over his walls.

He has returned to live in his native Limerick with his son, Kieran, and last
night he slammed the rise in racism against the Irish in Britain.

"I just couldn't take any more from these people," he said. "I wrote twice to
Tony Blair and got no reply and wrote to Mary McAleese but she said the Irish
Constitution prevented her getting involved.

"I had come home for a family funeral and when I went back my house had been
destroyed.

Paint

"They threw paint over the carpets, cut up the furniture and plastered graffiti
on the walls.

"They wrote things like 'murdering Irish scum' on the walls. It was terrible. I
was afraid for my son so I left and came home. I would never go back."

Tony spoke out as a TD here blasted Channel Four soap Brookside for linking an
Irish family in the hit show to the IRA.

Programme makers have received hundreds of complaints about the plot-line which
has seen a member of Brookside's only Irish family accused of raping a neighbour
at a Christmas party.

Fianna Fail deputy Martin Brady slammed the soap last night and said: "Accusing
the Irish family in the soap series of running an IRA safe house, and of grazing
horses in their garden is pure racism.

"The comments by the show's producer that she wants to look at the inherent
racism against the Irish is the sort of justification of a poorly thought out
series of remarks that is completely unacceptable.

"I believe if she wanted to expose racism she would be better off to contact
Irish support groups in Britain."

Tony Boland says he was a victim of the type of anti-Irish racism featured in
the top telly soap.

He lived in England for 36 years, most of it in Manchester where he married and
raised a family.

After his wife died, he lived in a house in the Hulme estate on Manchester's
Moss Side with his son from a second relationship.

"The abuse was terrible," he said. "

"One day I was at Mass and the priest called me out.

"My car had been covered in 12 gallons of white gloss paint. There were 40 cars
there but they picked mine.

"I was verbally abused and had graffiti painted on my walls. I think it all
started after the IRA bomb in Manchester five years ago."

Hatred

Tony went to Manchester police for help, and officers agreed he was being
subjected to a campaign of racial hatred.

They tried to arrange a hearing at the Race Relations Commission, but when the
former builder found out it would take six months he decided to pack up and
leave.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR: Tony Boland and son Kieran were forced to flee their home after
suffering racial abuse

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              142 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 30, 1999, Saturday

So do you regard Shahid and Malek as fellow countrymen?; Fergal Keane

SECTION: COMMENT; Page 3

LENGTH: 1205 words


SO WHAT was your reaction when you first heard that five "Britons" had been
arrested in Yemen? Alarm? Perhaps a touch of outrage? Did you feel an
instinctive twinge of pity that five of our boys could find themselves at the
mercy of a brutal regime? Some of you may even have felt the urge to pick up a
pen and write to the newspapers, maybe even demand that the Government do
something.

And then in the next breath, when you heard that their names were Shahid,
Ghulam, Malek, Mohsin and Sirmad, when the penny dropped that they were not
white "Britons", did you feel some mitigation of your anger? And when the Yemeni
authorities announced that these not-quite-true Brits had been planning a
campaign of terrorist attacks against Westerners, did you feel that everything
was falling into place, that this was precisely what you expected from men with
names like Shahid, Ghulam, Malek, Mohsin and Sirmad?

If the answer is yes to all or most of the above questions, I rather suspect
that you are part of a majority. Not a right-wing, xenophobic majority, but a
liberal one that likes to think of itself as tolerant on issues of race, and
believes that by and large Britain is not a racist society.

I like to think of myself as one of those liberals. I have often compared racial
attitudes in Britain to those in the United States and come away feeling that
things here are a lot better. I have dismissed as unrepresentative the three
incidents of racist abuse - all by whites against blacks - that I have witnessed
since I started living in London a year ago.

When I drive through Shepherds Bush on my way to work and see white cops - every
other day - stopping black men and searching them, I don't really pay much
attention. And the racist "Pakis out" graffito that pops up now and again on the
slides and wings in the local playground? Just the work of kids with nothing
better to do, I tell myself.

I don't have many black or Asian friends here; I don't meet a great many in my
daily rounds; but by and large I have been impressed with the way that people of
all races seem to get on with each other.

Have I been too complacent? Unfortunately, I think the answer is yes.  It has
taken the unhappy saga of the Yemen arrests to shake my casual assumptions about
race in Britain. For I have no doubt that had the boys in Yemen been Keith,
Fred, Ian, Joe and Pete, had they been the same colour as I, then my level of
outrage would have been infinitely greater.

Not just mine, of course, but that of the rest of the media, the political
establishment and the great sweep of public opinion. Remember the outrage and
media obsession that attended the tribulations of Louise Woodward and compare it
to the whimpering indifference that has, up to now, typified the response to the
Yemen Five.

Then the plight of a single white female caused shock waves from Washington to
Downing Street. Television cameras were installed in her local pub and acres of
newsprint were devoted to cheerleading for her defence.

Why is it that we were willing to allow the assumption of innocence to Louise
Woodward, and not the Yemen Five. And why has it taken until this week, with the
visits by the men's families to Yemen, for the British media to pay any detailed
attention to the allegations of torture in that country?

For many people in Britain the words "Islamic" and "fundamentalist" mean one and
the same thing. They have been hobbled together in the popular consciousness to
create a grossly distorted view of the religion and its adherents.

"Islam" means Ayatollah Khomeini, the Taliban, Osama bin Laden. It means
wild-eyed, bearded fanatics vowing vengeance on the West. Can you imagine this
kind of poisonous oversimplification and demonisation being visited on
Christians as a group because of the actions or utterances of our more
fundamentalist clerics?

In the case of the Yemen Five the antipathy towards Islam has been extended to a
generalised assumption that the men were "up to no good". But this assumption
has been made solely on the word of the Yemeni authorities, whose record for
fair dealing hardly stands up to much scrutiny. When the men's families deny
that their sons and brothers were fundamentalists bent on carnage, should we not
extend to them the same benefit of credence as we do to the Yemenis? Whatever
they were doing in Yemen, we have no right to assume that they were terrorists.

I don't doubt that the Yemeni authorities felt they were on safe ground in
arresting the five. They would have expected the indifference and prejudgement
that have characterised our national response. They also clearly feel confidence
in the ability of their secret policemen to secure the necessary confessions and
convictions. By any reasonable standards Yemeni jails are places of spectacular
brutality. Human rights groups speak of widespread torture and "grossly unfair"
trials.

Consider this excerpt from a report by Amnesty International, published two
years ago, on the conditions in Yemeni jails: "Such conditions have facilitated
the systematic use of torture in Yemeni prisons and detention centres. . .
government opponents and critics of the state have also fallen victim to
abduction and beatings. Political suspects have been abducted from their homes
or in the street and severely beaten to stop them criticising the government.
Evidence suggests that these abuses were committed by the security forces. . ."

In other words, we are dealing with a judicial system that will use any means to
secure a confession. When the detainees complain of electric shock torture,
beatings on the soles of their feet and sexual violation, we must surely listen.

If the Yemen Five have signed confessions, then we would do well to ignore them.
They are the kind of documents that would be thrown out of court in any
half-decent judicial system. In Yemen, however, they may be used to secure the
long-term incarceration - or worse - of five British citizens.

There is also the matter of the Yemeni government's uncertain motives in this
matter. Can we assume that, hugely embarrassed by the bungled hostage rescue,
they will be remotely even-handed in dealing with their British(with a small b,
as it were) captives?

It is time our Government and media, all of us, woke up to what is happening in
Yemen. In the last week there have been some hopeful signs. Newspapers and
television have been giving increasing amounts of space to the men's families.
But our politicians are too silent.

I have seen Labour's Keith Vaz on television, but none of the party's bigger
guns. And as for the Tories who are now proclaiming a vision of a broader
Britain? I await Mr Hague's intervention with interest.

This trial may prove to be a defining moment in the debate about Britishness.
It is not simply a matter of crime and punishment. We have a chance to make a
statement about inclusiveness, about the nature of British identity at the end
of the century. This is an admirably open society in many ways. But the issues
of race and identity need far more work than most of us have been willing to
admit.

The writer is a BBC special correspondent


LOAD-DATE: February 01, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              143 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 31, 1999, Sunday

THE TERROR FANATICS OUT TO BOMB BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Dean Rousewell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 211 words


THIS is the chilling face of a fanatical IRA splinter group dedicated to
launching fresh bomb attacks in Britain.

Three balaclava-clad terrorists, surrounded by powerful rifles and hand pistols,
demonstrate how to strip weapons.

The 10-minute video is part of a propaganda campaign by the hardline Continuity
IRA, who remain bitterly opposed to the ceasefire and could wreck the Northern
Ireland peace process.

It will be shown in a Channel 4 Dispatches film on Thursday which claims that
Continuity IRA:

HAS a mystery US backer who has promised pounds 600,000 if he "starts seeing
bodies on his TV screen again."

HATES "soft" mainstream IRA groups who agreed to a ceasefire, and

has access to sophisticated weapons of destruction it will never hand over.

The video, filmed in the IRA heartland of Bogside in a clear two-fingered salute
at the Provos, was given given to Dispatches as it researched IRA groups.

A copy has been handed over to senior RUC officers. A grenade launcher seen in
the video is clearly earmarked for use in a terror campaign.

Former IRA member Sean O'Callaghan tells Dispatches: "Continuity IRA are a real
threat.

"I fear there will be more bombs in London and elsewhere as long as they are
around."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHILLER: The propaganda video boasting of Continuity IRA's arsenal

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              144 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            January 31, 1999, Sunday

IRA REBELS VOW TO BOMB BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 104 words


FANATICAL IRA rebels bitterly opposed to the peace deal have vowed to launch new
bomb attacks in Britain.

And a mystery US backer has promised them pounds 600,000 if he "starts seeing
bodies" on his TV screen again.

A propaganda video made by the Continuity IRA will be shown on Channel 4's
Dispatches on Thursday.

It reveals how members of the vicious splinter group hate "soft" mainstream IRA
groups and own sophisticated weapons that they will never hand over.

Former IRA member Sean O'Callaghan told Dispatches: "I fear there will be more
bombs in London and elsewhere as long as they are around."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              145 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 2, 1999, Tuesday

CIA 'foil London terror mission'

BYLINE: By Rupert Cornwell and Elizabeth Nash in Madrid

SECTION: NEWS; Page 2

LENGTH: 459 words


A SUSPECTED leading member of an Islamic terrorist group, believed to be behind
the massacre of foreign tourists at Luxor in Egypt, in which six Britons died,
is being held in Uruguay.

According to reports in Uruguay, confirmed in London last night, three people
were arrested at the border town of Chui on Friday as they were attempting to
cross into Brazil, as the first stage of an alleged terror mission to London.
The local police are believed to have been acting on a CIA tip-off.

The three were named as Hisham al-Tarabili Aka Bilal and his wife, Sahar
Muhammad, an Egyptian couple travelling with their three children, and Mahammad
Abu al-Nez, a Brazilian of Jordanian origin, who was assisting them with
formalities at the border. The Egyptian family members were said to be carrying
fake Brazilian passports originating in Paraguay.  An international search is
under way for two other men travelling with them who escaped.

Uruguayan press reports said the arrests followed a CIA tip off to the
Montevideo authorities that members of the Egyptian militant group Al Gamaat al
Islamiyyah were travelling to London via Brazil.

Uruguayan police are said to have been congratulated by the American
intelligence agency for foiling what is being called a "London Mission."

The woman and the Jordanian were released on Sunday, the Uruguayan newspaper El
Pais said. But Mr Aka Bilal, who has requested an Egyptian lawyer, was still
being questioned, for a third consecutive day. Reputed to be an associate of the
alleged terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden, he is suspected of being a prime
mover behind the Luxor massacre in November 1997.

He is also said to be wanted by the US in connection with the World Trade Center
bombing in New York and the attacks last August on the US embassies in Kenya and
Tanzania. According to the Uruguayan reports, both countries are seeking Mr Aka
Bilal's extradition - although in the case of Egypt, no extradition treaty
exists with Uruguay.

Mr bin Laden is the number one global target of US intelligence. He is accused
of a series of terrorist attacks in the last few years, including the 1996 truck
bombing which killed 19 American soldiers in their barracks in Saudi Arabia in
November 1996, and last summer's bombings of the US embassies in Nairobi and
Dar-es-Salaam, in which 256 people died.

There was no word of what the group intended to do in London. But many Arab
experts here are dubious it planned any major outrage. In contrast to France,
Britain is regarded as a relatively safe haven for political opposition from the
Arab world. For this reason, the experts argue, terrorists would be unwilling to
do anything here which might provoke a crackdown.


LOAD-DATE: February 02, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              146 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                February 3, 1999

Last-ditch secret talks on Lockerbie suspects

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 588 words


SECRET last-ditch talks on a handover of the two Lockerbie bombing suspects were
under way in Libya last night as a new deadline loomed for imposing tougher
sanctions if the Libyan leader, Muammar Gadafy, does not comply.

Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the United States,
travelled to Tripoli to try to clinch an elusive agreement to try the men for
their suspected role in the downing of Pan Am flight 103 and murder of 270
people in December 1988.

Senior British sources said Colonel Gadafy was finally convinced that United
Nations sanctions would be effectively lifted once the accused were surrendered.

But the Saudi emissary still has to overcome the last remaining hurdle to a
trial - what London and Washington say is their non-negotiable insistence that
the two must be jailed in Scotland if convicted of the worst act of terrorism in
British history.

Saudi sources confirmed that the talks were taking place but said they should
remain secret. US officials made it clear that this was the last chance for a
deal before they sought tighter sanctions, but Britain wants to carry on trying
for a solution without imposing a deadline.

Prince Bandar and Jakes Gerwell, President Nelson Mandela of South Africa's
cabinet chief, flew to Tripoli two weeks ago and left saying they expected that
Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifah Fhimah would be handed over within
weeks.

But yesterday the Saudi envoy was forced to travel overland via Tunisia.
Diplomats said that the US, now deeply suspicious of what it sees as Libyan
time-wasting, was unwilling to back another exemption to the UN ban on flights
in and out of the country. Mr Gerwell may return separately.

American officials are understood to be concerned that Prince Bandar has
suggested to the Libyans that there is room for negotiation. The Americans
insist there is none.

"We did not ask Prince Bandar to go but we are aware that he may be there," a
senior Foreign Office source said last night. "He is fully aware of our position
and it may indeed be helpful for him to spell it out again to the Libyans."

Intense diplomatic activity has been under way since August when a reluctant US
was persuaded to follow Britain in a sharp U-turn that meant the two alleged
intelligence agents could stand trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands.

Following an initiative by the Foreign Secretary, Robin Cook, Britain has gone
to extraordinary lengths to coax Libya into compliance. Last month he stated
explicitly that under Scottish law the two men, if convicted, would then have
the right to refuse to be interviewed by police or intelligence agencies.

The move was part of an intense effort to convince Col Gadafy that the damage to
his regime can be limited and that senior security chiefs will not be
implicated.

But whether or not this succeeds, Libya could face damaging public exposure next
month when six men accused of killing 170 people in the 1989 bombing of a French
airliner over Niger are tried in absentia in Paris. The most important of these
is Col Gadafy's brother-in-law, Abdullah Senussi, the head of Libya's external
intelligence organisation.

London and Washington changed course last summer because they felt that the
sanctions were being eroded, especially by African and Arab states.

But Britain has argued forcefully that having long demanded a trial in a third
country, Col Gadafy should now accept what is on offer and send his men to the
Netherlands.


LOAD-DATE: February 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                February 4, 1999

Anger of judge as blunder frees the guilty IRA BOMBER

BYLINE: Paul Cheston

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 531 words


THE LAST IRA terrorist held in a British mainland prison walked free today - not
because of his innocence but because he had been illegally extradited.

English-born Nicholas Mullen had been jailed for 30 years in 1990 for organising
a bomb factory in Clapham at the heart of an intended blitz on Britain.

But he was freed this morning when three Appeal Court judges ruled that his
trial should never have taken place because he had been brought back to Britain
illegally from Zimbabwe where he had fled.

Mullen, who pleaded not guilty at his Old Bailey trial, now admits he was the
IRA fixer and quartermaster who had helped to assemble a massive arsenal of guns
and explosives and provided false documents for the bombers.

After freeing him, the Appeal Court launched a furious attack on police and
security services. The Vice-President Lord Justice Rose accused them of "a
blatant and extremely serious failure to adhere to the rule of law".

The judge, sitting with Mr Justice Coleman and Mr Justice Maurice Kay,
acknowledged the "immense degree of public revulsion" at IRA members and all who
take part in terrorist violence.

However he went on: "But for the unlawful manner of his deportation, Mullen
would not have been in this country to be prosecuted when he was and there was a
real prospect that he would never have been brought here at all.

"For a conviction to be safe, it must be lawful and if it results from a trial
which should never have taken place, it can hardly be regarded as safe."

Supporters cheered at the judgment and Mullen, now 51, smiled at the public
gallery which included Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn.

After his conviction for conspiracy to cause explosions, Mullen was described by
the trial judge Mr Justice Hidden as "a very dangerous man who combines a high
degree of criminal cunning with a commitment to a political cause".

The son of an RAF engineer, Mullen graduated from being a student radical at

Middlesex Polytechnic to become quartermaster to two bombers, Patrick Sheehy and
John Conaty, who at that time were Britain's most wanted IRA men.

Mullen was helping them organise a bombing campaign for Christmas 1988 and
police discovered in his Clapham flat 100lb of explosives, detonators and
machineguns and a list of 100 prominent politicians, judges and intelligence
chiefs including then Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher's car registration
number.

After this discovery Mullen fled to Zimbabwe with his girlfriend and daughter to
escape arrest.

The court was told today that he made false applications to stay in Africa and
was trading illegally in precious stones having covered up his criminal past.

Intelligence chiefs in London approached their counterparts in Harare with the
intention of having Mullen secretly deported back to Britain.

They were concerned that he should not be allowed to apply for deportation to
Ireland nor should he be given the opportunity to fight an attempted extradition
because it was felt he might succeed for political reasons.

As a result, they colluded with the Zimbabweans to deny Mullen access to a
lawyer and also to hide their involvement.


LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              148 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                February 5, 1999

Mowlam: 'Sheer guts' needed as Irish peace wavers

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 396 words


NORTHERN Ireland's political leaders were urged to keep their nerve as
republican and loyalist terror groups appeared to be pushing the peace process
towards breaking point today.

But Mo Mowlam's call for them to show "sheer guts" was followed by unconfirmed
reports that security in Britain was being tightened against attacks from
dissident republican groups.

Even before the claims the Northern Ireland Secretary had admitted: "We are
entering a very difficult period."

The IRA's admission yesterday that arms had been stolen from its stockpiles by
dissidents opposed to the Good Friday agreement was followed by a public show of
force by just such a group.

A home video showing members of the hard-line Continuity IRA brandishing weapons
that included a huge M79 grenade launcher known as a "Blooper" was featured in a
Channel 4 Dispatches documentary last night.

The group also used the programme to threaten bomb attacks on the British
mainland.

And it came after a group of Ulster Volunteer Force men claim to have taken
delivery of a smuggled consignment of weapons, including a huge anti-tank gun.

But Ms Mowlam, who has again faced calls for her resignation from hardline
republicans, has urged leaders in the Province to take heart.

Speaking as the last IRA prisoner held in an English jail was freed by the Court
of Appeal, she said: "We need all people involved to show the determination,
flexibility, courage and just sheer guts to move this process forward."

Four men will be sentenced today for the IRA killing of an Irish detective
against a background of growing unrest about the handling of the case.

Commissioner Patrick Byrne, the head of the Irish police force, last night
conceded that fears about intimidation of witnesses may have contributed to a
controversial move that led to the four accused of the murder being permitted to
change their pleas to guilty of manslaughter.

He said both the intimidation dimension and concerns that capital murder charges
against the gang would fail could also have led to acceptance of the plea
change.

The police chief was commenting after yesterday adjournment of sentencing of the
four, as well as another man accused of an offence linked to the 1996 botched
IRA raid on a security van in Co Limerick that ended with the shooting dead of
Detective Garda Jerry McCabe, 52.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              149 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            February 5, 1999, Friday

TERRORISM CASE MEN 'ARE EXTREMIST'S HENCHMEN'

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 552 words


Three Birmingham men on trial in Yemen for alleged terrorism were described by a
Tory peer yesterday as "henchmen" of an Islamic extremist.

Lord Rowallan demanded an investigation into allegations that a "terrorist cell"
was being run at the mosque at Finsbury Park in London.

And he went on to demand the extradition to Yemen of the leader of the group
based at the mosque, saying: "As a result of the trial of six of his henchmen in
the Yemen at the moment, including his stepson, an official request has been
received for the extradition of Abu Hamza, who is the leader of the Supporters
of Shariah group."

His demand came as a solicitor representing the British Muslims being tried on
terror charges in Yemen was hoping to meet government officials in the Middle
Eastern state.

Mr Rashad Yaqoob said he had arranged to meet senior Government officials in the
capital Sana'a before the trial resumes in the southern port of Aden tomorrow
Saturday.

He was on his way to Sana'a yesterday with a third group of relatives and
supporters of those already on trial and another three Britons - two of them
from Birmingham - seized at what the Yemeni authorities claim was a terrorist
training camp.

Malik Nasser Harhra (26), from Small Heath, Shahid Butt (33), also from Small
Heath, and Samad Ahmed (21), from Yardley, are charged with associating with
armed groups, plotting murder and destruction and possessing weapons.

Ghulam Hussein (25), from Luton; Mohsin Ghalain (18), from London, and Frenchman
James Luovres (30), also face the same allegations.

The Yemeni authorities say the charges relate to a foiled bombing plot and the
men have links to the group whose kidnapping of 16 Westerners ended in the
deaths of four of them, including three Britons, in December.

When their trial opened last week the men claimed they had been tortured by the
Yemeni security forces and insisted they were innocent.

It is believed the two other Birmingham men arrested last week - cousins Shazad
Nabi (20), and Ayad Hussein (26) - are likely to face similar charges.

Their fellow suspect Mohammed Mustafa Kamel, whose mother and grandfather were
travelling to Yemen with Mr Yaqoob, is the 17-year-old son of Abu Hamza al
-Masri, the London-based Muslim fundamentalist leader.

Mohsin Ghalain, who was arrested with the first group, is the stepson of Hamza.

Calling on the Government to press ahead with Hamza's extradition to Yemen, Lord
Rowallan asked Ministers at question time in the Lords yesterday: "Could you
confirm that the Government will accede to this request and that it will take
the necessary

steps to stop the activities of its (the group's) supporters within the mosque?"

Lord Rowallan said these activities "must contravene" the Criminal Justice
(Terrorism and Conspiracy) Act, which made it an offence to plot in Britain to
commit terrorist offences abroad.

Home Office Minister of State Lord Williams of Mostyn replied it would be a
matter for the police and the Security Service.

"All allegations of this sort, of course, are studied very closely by the
interested agencies," he said.

"It would not be right for me to discuss any current inquiries they may be
undertaking. It simply helps those who may or may not be being investigated."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              150 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 5, 1999

Missing classes spell trouble

BYLINE: Exclusive John O'Farrell Belfast

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 509 words


CLASSES at which David Trimble and Gerry Adams, the rival Unionist and
republican leaders, were to learn how to be effective Ministers in the power
-sharing Stormont assembly have been cancelled.

The move is another alarming indication that the growing political crisis in the
province could scupper last year's Good Friday agreement.

The Northern Ireland Office has pulled the plug on training sessions for all 12
members of the executive (cabinet).

Leading academics were booked by the NIO to pass on ministerial skills to Mr
Trimble, the First Minister, Mr Seamus Mallon, his deputy from the nationalist
SDLP, both Mr Adams and Mr Martin McGuinness of Sinn Fein, and the eight other
Stormont Ministers.

But they were told earlier this week that the lessons had been scrapped and not,
as some academics hoped, merely postponed.

It shows that the Government is privately expecting that deadlines for political
progress will be missed. That contrasts with the Prime Minister's public
insistence that the timetable for movement will be honoured.

If the power-sharing executive is not formed by March 10, dubbed "devolution
day", then Northern Ireland's 108-strong assembly will not be handed the wide
range of legislative powers as expected. That could bring the peace process to a
standstill.

The disclosure comes amid further downbeat statements by Dr Mo Mowlam, the
Northern Ireland Secretary, who admitted the peace process was going through "a
very difficult period".

She said the IRA's statement that some of its weapons have been stolen from its
secret stockpiles built up during the Troubles made the search for peace even
more vital.

The upsurge in punishment attacks and threat of a return to violence by
dissident loyalists have added to an atmosphere of gloom.

There is a growing suspicion that the theft of IRA armaments may be linked to
the abduction and beating last weekend of Paddy Fox, an IRA dissident who
regards the Good Friday agreement as a sellout.

In a Channel Four documentary last night, the anti-ceasefire Continuity IRA
faction threatened to launch bomb attacks in Britain.

In a further sign of the political strife, The Herald understands that the
nationalist SDLP is set to oppose Mr Trimble's attempt to suspend, the agreement
until the IRA decommissioning row is settled. The Provos refuse to hand over any
arms.

President Clinton last night offered to help "in any way he could" with the
Northern Ireland peace process.

In a telephone conversation with Tony Blair, the Prime Minister brought the
President up to date with developments.

A Downing Street spokesman said: "President Clinton said, once again, he was
stood by and ready to help in any way he could."

Meanwhile, more than 70 police officers have been injured since the Orange
Order's Drumcree stand-off began last July, the RUC said as the latest police
victim of the violence in Portadown, County Armagh, was recovering from injuries
sustained ina riot on Wednesday night.

Last prisoner Page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 5, 1999

IRA bomber walks free

BYLINE: James Mckillop

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 637 words


MI6 tactics condemned

THE last Irish Republican prisoner held in a mainland jail in Britain yesterday
walked free following a ruling that was a humiliating indictment of MI6 and a
condemnation of the tactics adopted by their officers.

Appeal court judges ruled that MI6 agents had acted illegally in the way
Nicholas Mullen, 50, was brought back from Zimbabwe so he could stand trial in
this country.

He is a convicted IRA London-based quartermaster whose bomb factory is suspected
of being the base for a proposed rocket attack on the House of Commons.

Quoting a precedent, the judges declared the conduct of the British authorities
was so unworthy and shameful that it was an affront to the public conscience to
allow the original prosecution to succeed.

"The conduct of the security services and police in procuring the unlawful
deportation of the appellant in the manner which has been described represents,
in the view of this court, a blatant and extremely serious failure to adhere to
the rule of law with regard to the production of a defendant for prosecution in
the English courts."

Mullen, who concedes he was properly convicted, was jailed for 30 years in June
1990 for conspiracy to cause explosions at the IRA's "bomb factory" in Clapham,
south-west London. He had fled to Zimbabwe with his girlfriend and young
daughter but was arrested on his return. He smiled broadly as he left the High
Court in London yesterday.

"Of course, I have been wronged," he declared on the steps of the court. ''I am
now going to go for a drink."

The appeal court judges ruled he should not have stood trial in the first place
because of the unlawful activities of agents from the MI6 intelligence agency
and, to a degree, Scotland Yard officers.

The manner in which Mullen was brought back to the UK from Zimbabwe to stand
trial violated both international and Zimbabwean law, Lord Justice Rose, Mr
Justice Colman, and Mr Justice Maurice Kay ruled.

Siding with Mullen and thereby granting him his freedom, Lord Justice Rose said:
"It follows that, in the highly unusual circumstances of this case,
notwithstanding that there is no criticism of the trial judge or jury and no
challenge to the propriety of the outcome of the trial itself, this appeal must
be allowed and the appellant's conviction quashed."

The judgment was greeted with loud cheers and applause from Republican
sympathisers who had packed the courtroom.

Mullen became a key suspect for anti-terrorist detectives following a shooting
incident in Battersea in December 1988. A building linked to Mullen was found to
contain more than 100lbs of Semtex, timing and power units to detonate bombs,
ready made car bombs, blasting incendiary devices, mortar bomb equipment,
firearms, and ammunition.

The day before, he and his girlfriend Jenny Payne and their daughter had flown
to Zimbabwe. The judges had no doubt his arrest there and his return to London
flouted international law.

MI6 agents devised a scheme with intelligence contacts in Zimbabwe whereby
Mullen could be arrested in Harare and returned to London without going through
proper legal procedures.

Nobody wanted to get involved in extradition, which was likely to become bogged
down.

The Zimbabwean intelligence were provided with false documents by MI6 that
insisted Mullen should be deported for using false documents and dealing in the
trafficking in precious stones.

Scotland Yard detectives concluded any move by the Zimbabwean authorities to
exclude Mullen must be based solely on his activities in that country: "Any
action taken must at all costs be capable of withstanding close judicial
scrutiny in England."

Yesterday, according to the High Court judges, MI6 and Scotland Yard came
nowhere close to meeting that objective.

LOAD-DATE: February 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Nicholas Mullen, the last Republican prisoner being held in a British
jail, leaves court after being freed Picture: JOHN STILLWELL/PA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       February 5, 1999, Friday Edition 1

Terrorist illegally extradited walks free

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 349 words


   IRA terrorist Nicholas Mullen walked free from the Court of Appeal yesterday
even though he admitted his guilt on bomb plot charges.

Mullen, the last republican prisoner being held in a British mainland jail,
conceded that he was properly convicted in June 1990 but argued that he had been
illegally extradited from Zimbabwe, where he had fled with his girlfriend and
young daughter.

Cambridge-born Mullen, 50, was jailed for 30 years for conspiracy to cause
explosions at the IRA's "bomb factory" in Clapham, London.

He smiled as Lord Justice Rose, Mr Justice Colman and Mr Justice Maurice Kay
held that his conviction was unsafe and should be quashed because the way he was
deported violated both international law and Zimbabwean law.

Later, greeted by cheering supporters outside London's Law Courts, he said he
was "relieved and happy".

Asked if he was surprised at the outcome: "No, I have been hopeful.

"I am glad to be going out of the front door rather than the back door today - I
am just sorry it has taken so long."

Mr Mullen, who had been held in Frankland jail, County Durham, added: "Of course
I have been wronged."

Lord Justice Rose said the court was allowing the appeal in the "highly unusual
circumstances" of the case, notwithstanding that there was no criticism of the
trial judge or jury or of the propriety of the outcome of the trial itself.

But the court's discretion had to be exercised on the basis that, but for the
"unlawful manner" of Mullen's deportation, he would not have been in Britain to
be prosecuted when he was and there was a real prospect that he would never have
been brought to this country at all.

"For a conviction to be safe it must be lawful; and if it results from a trial
which should never have taken place it can hardly be regarded as 'safe'," said
Lord Justice Rose.

The appeal judges held that it must have been appreciated by the British
intelligence service, and probably by the British police, that keeping Mullen
from any legal advice after his detention in Zimbabwe was in breach of
Zimbabwean law.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bomb plot: Nicholas Mullen.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              153 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 5, 1999, Friday

BRITISH CITIES FACE BOMB BLITZ SAYS EX-IRA TERRORIST;
 NEW THREAT AS LAST PROVO PRISONER WALKS FREE

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 356 words


BRITISH cities face a new bombing campaign, a former IRA terrorist warned last
night. Brendan McClenaghan, a supporter of the political wing of the Continuity
IRA, said the group could take its campaign of violence to Britain. "It's a
reality that has happened in the past," he said. "And there's nothing has
changed much to suggest to me that it isn't a possibility that something like
that could happen again in the future." Interviewed on Channel 4's Dispatches
programme broadcast last night, McClenaghan said there was still a mandate for
"armed struggle". He was asked if people in Britain should fear future bombing
campaigns. McClenaghan replied: "I'm not aware of any tactics people are
proposing, but it looks verymuch as if it will be the same as before. "What
happened in the last 30 years will probably continue in that vein." The
programme also showed a Continuity IRA video of four masked men handling weapons
including a grenade launcher.Researchers said the man who handed over the tape
told them: "We'll be starting a military campaign sooner rather than later.
"Targets will be security: Brits, cops, that type of thing. Bit of commercial:
banks, tax offices." The threats were issued as the last IRA prisoner in a
British jail walked free after the Court of Appeal quashed sentence. Judges
ruled that bombmakerNicholas Mullen had been illegally extradited from Zimbabwe.
Mullen, 50, who admitted his crimes, had served 10 years of a 30-years sentence
for conspiracy to cause explosions after the discovery of an IRA bomb factory in
Clapham, south London. Detectives believed he was plotting to fire mortar bombs
across the Thames at the Commons. After his release, he said: "I'm glad to be
going out of the front door rather than the back door today - I'm just sorry it
has taken so long." As he left court to loud applause he hugged daughter
Jessica, 17. The Cambridge-born electronics engineer had been recruited by the
IRA as a student. He was described at his trial as a "very dangerous man". The
judge told him: "You combine a high degree of criminal cunning with commitment
to a political cause."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RELEASED: IRA bombmaker Nicholas Mullen and daughter Jessica walk from
London's High Court yesterday

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              154 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 5, 1999, Friday

BRITISH CITIES FACE IRA BOMB THREAT;
 HARDLINERS PLANNING NEW UK BOMB CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Joe Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 372 words


BRITISH cities face a new bombing campaign, a former IRA terrorist warned last
night. Brendan McClenaghan, a supporter of the political wing of the Continuity
IRA, said the group could take its campaign of violence to Britain. The warning
came as the last IRA prisoner in a British jail walked free after the Court of
Appeal quashed his sentence. Judges ruled that bombmaker Nicholas Mullen had
been illegally extradited from Zimbabwe. McClenaghan said last night: "It's a
reality that has happened in the past," he said."And nothing has changed much to
suggest to me that it isn't a possibility that something like that could happen
again in the future." Interviewed on Channel 4's Dispatches programme,
McClenaghan said there was still a

mandate for armed struggle. He was asked if people in Britain should fear future
bombing campaigns. McClenaghan replied: "I'm not aware of any tactics people are
proposing, but it looks as if it will be the same as before. "What happened in
the last

30 years will probably continue in that vein." The programme also showed a
Continuity IRA video of four masked men handling weapons including a grenade
launcher. Researchers said the man who handed over the tape told them: "We'll be
starting a military campaign sooner rather than later. "The targets will be
security: Brits, cops, that type of thing. Bit of commercial: banks, tax
offices."Earlier in the day, judges ruled that bombmaker Mullen had been
illegally extradited from Zimbabwe.  Mullen, 50, who admitted his crimes, had
served 10 years of a 30-years sentence for conspiracy to cause explosions after
the discovery of an IRA bomb factory in Clapham,south London. Detectives
believed he was plotting to fire mortar bombs across the Thames at the Commons.
After his release, he said: "I'm glad to be going out of the front door rather
than the back door today - I'm just sorry it has taken so long."As he left court
to loud applause he hugged daughter Jessica, 17. The Cambridge -born electronics
engineer had been recruited by the IRA as a student. He was described at his
trial as a "very dangerous man". The judge told him: "You combine a high degree
of criminal cunning withcommitment to a political cause."

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FREED: Nicholas Mullen; TROUBLED: Mowlam

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              155 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            February 5, 1999, Friday

BOMB THREAT TO BRITAIN'S CITIES;
 IRA HARDLINERS PLAN CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: Nigel Morris, Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 277 words


BRITISH cities face a new bombing threat, a former IRA terrorist warned last
night.

Republican hardliner Brendan McClenaghan, asked about future terrorist
atrocities in London, said: "It's a reality that has happened in the past."

McClenaghan, a supporter of the political wing of the Continuity IRA, which does
not recognise the peace process, was interviewed on Channel 4's Dispatches.

He added: "Nothing has changed much to suggest that it isn't a possibility
something like that could happen again."

The programme featured a Continuity IRA video of four masked men handling
weapons including a grenade launcher.

Researchers said the man who delivered the tape had told them: "We'll be
starting a military campaign sooner rather than later."

The new threat came as the last Republican prisoner in a mainland jail, Nicholas
Mullen, 50, was yesterday released on a technicality from a 30-year sentence.

After 10 years in jail he successfully argued in the Court of Appeal that he was
ille- gally extradited from hiding in Zimbabwe to face bomb plot charges. He had
served 10 years.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam tried to increase pressure on Republican
and Loyalist terror groups to begin handing over weapons.

She spoke of entering a "very difficult" phase.

Ms Mowlam admitted the peace process was in trouble after the IRA revealed that
missing arms had fallen into the hands of dissidents.

She added: "We need all people involved to show the determination, flexibility,
courage and just sheer guts to move this process forward."

US President Bill Clinton last night offered to help "in any way he could".

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TROUBLE: Mowlam

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              156 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                February 6, 1999

Police alert over bomb fears

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 240 words


POLICE forces throughout the UK have been put on high alert for the possibility
of a renewed bombing campaign on the mainland in the approach to the March 10
deadline for the next stage in the peace process.

Intelligence agencies have told the Government that those determined to wreck
the establishment of the Northern Ireland Executive on that day may be preparing
a so-called spectacular. The alert is based on sound intelligence coming out of
Northern Ireland.

Police forces north of the Border have been warned to be even more vigilant than
usual because of the preference of republicans in the past to use Scottish ports
to import explosives and vehicles.

Members of the royal family and Cabinet Ministers are among those who have been
advised that breakaway groups could be intent on destroying the Good Friday
Agreement before it reaches its next crucial stage.

The Government confirmed yesterday that fears of a fresh terrorist campaign on
the mainland had led to a review of security throughout Britain.

The Home Office said the review was in line with the Government's policy of
continually monitoring the potential terrorist threat. An official insisted,
however, that the review was not directed at any specific terrorist group.

The so-called ring of steel around the City of London, which has always been a
prime target for the IRA, has been strengthened in the light of the latest
intelligence.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           February 6, 1999, Saturday

Britain put on alert for IRA bombs

BYLINE: By Colin Brown Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Page 4

LENGTH: 720 words


A REVIEW of security across mainland Britain was under way yesterday amid fears
of renewed violence by dissident republicans opposed to the IRA ceasefire and
the Ulster peace process.

The Home Office denied ministers had been warned that specific mainland sites,
such as Canary Wharf, in London's Docklands area, were being targeted by the
breakaway faction of the Provisional IRA, but said a review of security was
being carried out.

"There is a review of security under way, but there has been no specific threat
from any individual terrorist group that has led to this action," said a Home
Office spokesman.

Since the ceasefire, security has been relaxed around likely targets such as the
Palace of Westminster, but it is believed that police have reinforced the tight
security around the Square Mile of the City of London, a prime economic target
for bombers in the past.

The review came as Martin McGuinness, the Sinn Fein chief negotiator, said
yesterday: "There are republican rejectionists out there who are obviously
opposed to the Sinn Fein peace strategy and who wish to bring it down. These
people are unrepresentative and they are totally and absolutely clearly not
speaking for the overwhelming majority of republicans who have in election after
election supported the Sinn Fein peace strategy."

Calling on David Trimble, the Ulster Unionist First Minister of the new Northern
Assembly, to hold his nerve, Mr McGuinness said on BBC radio that there were
also unrepresentative loyalist groups attacking the nationalist community on an
almost daily basis.

"These can be defeated by combined political action of Unionist and republican
leaders working together to implement the Good Friday Agreement."

Tony Blair is prepared to go to Belfast for more talks with the parties to break
the deadlock between the Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein over the establishment
of the power-sharing executive, which has threatened to wreck the peace process.

The crisis in the process was discussed in a phone call between Mr Blair and
President Bill Clinton on Thursday night. There are rumours at Westminster that
during St Patrick's Day celebrations in the United States President Clinton will
be exerting pressure on Sinn Fein's leader, Gerry Adams, and Mr McGuinness for
the IRA to call a halt to the punishment beatings, which have undermined the
process.

Mr Trimble said he was sticking to his demand for a start to the decommissioning
of IRA weapons before sitting down in the executive with Mr Adams and Mr
McGuinness.

Bertie Ahern, the Irish Prime Minister, ruled out suggestions at Westminster
that establishment of the assembly and executive could be suspended until a
solution was found.

Meanwhile, in the Republic a rift appeared between Dublin and Sinn Fein over the
Good Friday Agreement as four men were jailed yesterday for killing Limerick
Garda Jerry McCabe during a 1996 IRA robbery.

During the raid in the tourist village of Adare, Det Garda McCabe, a father of
five, died in a hail of bullets. His partner, Garda Ben O'Sullivan, was
critically injured. Responsibility was first denied, then admitted by the
Provisional IRA.

Mr Ahern, on a visit to Northern Ireland, insisted that the four would serve
"whatever sentences were handed down by the court". But Mr McGuinness predicted
that the men would qualify for the early-release scheme.

Dublin has repeatedly insisted that Good Friday Agreement early releases were
qualified by a protocol, subject of intense argument during final negotiations
last April, excluding from the scheme certain prisoners awaiting trial,
including the McCabe accused.

The former Brixton escaper Pearse McCauley, 34, of Strabane, and Kevin Walsh,
42, of Patrickswell, Limerick, were jailed for 14 years at Dublin's Special
Criminal Court. Jeremiah Sheehy, 36, of Rathkeale, and Michael O'Neill, 48, of
Patrickswell, received 12 and 11-year terms respectively.  They pleaded guilty
to manslaughter. A fifth, John Quinn, aged 30, received six years for conspiracy
to rob.

Nora Owen, of the Fine Gael opposition, a former justice minister, said she was
"deeply concerned" by the McGuinness intervention and urged the Taoiseach to
clarify the position before the Dail.

Fergal Keane, Review, page 3


LOAD-DATE: February 08, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              158 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 6, 1999, Saturday

LIVING WITH BRITAIN'S HARDEST MAN;
 LENNY MCLEAN WAS THE BARE-KNUCKLE FIGHT CHAMPION WHO WENT ON TO STAR IN ITV'S
THE KNOCK AND THE HIT FILM LOCK, STOCK AND TWO SMOKING BARRELS. HERE HIS WIFE
VAL TALKS FOR THE FIRST TIME SINCE HIS DEATH LAST YEAR.

BYLINE: By Steve Tooze

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4, 5, 6

LENGTH: 2490 words


It has been six months since "The Guv'nor" died, but only now does Val McLean
feel able to talk about the 30 years she spent loving a husband who revelled in
his bloody and violent image as the hardest man in Britain.

When Val faced six-foot three-inch, 20 stone Lenny McLean across the breakfast
table each morning, she didn't see the fearsome, undefeated king of 3,000 brutal
bare-knuckle fights.

She knew her man was a friend of the Krays, "Mad" Frankie Fraser and many of
East London's most ferocious gangsters. She nursed him and worried over him when
he was shot and stabbed in the underworld feuds which would erupt from time to
time.

But for Val, the lethal fists that pulverised giant gypsy challengers, IRA
gunmen, Glaswegian psychos and Mafia hardmen alike held no fear. To her and
their two children Lenny McLean was a different man, a guardian who protected
them from the terrifying world in which he moved, a world which was always kept
on the other side of the front door.

"He was really loving and affectionate, always cuddling and kissing me," says
Val. "He had a terrific sense of humour. That was the Lenny I loved.  Now I
sometimes lie in bed all day, crying until I don't feel I've got a single tear
left in my body. I'm desperate for one of his cuddles and I know I can't have
one."

Val, 47, is a far cry from the typical gangster's moll - home is a tasteful semi
in a quiet suburban street in Bexleyheath, Kent, rather than a garish country
mansion. She is slim and stylishly dressed in black with her blonde hair cut
into a sleek, demure bob.

Her daughter Kelly, is a pretty 26-year-old hairdresser with flame-red hair and
her father's forthright manner, and son Jamie, 27, is a dealer on the Stock
Exchange.

"He was so different from his image and was devoted to the kids and me," Val
continues. "We were a little separate world that he kept away from all the
violence and fighting. We always swore that our children wouldn't live their
lives the way he had. We refused to let anyone discuss fighting or crime in the
house. When Jamie was little, Lenny used to look at him and say, 'Son, you're
never going to turn out like me. I'll make sure of that'. He did - and I'm so
proud of him for that."

Lenny died last year at the age of 49 after losing the one fight he couldn't win
- his private battle against cancer - but Val comforts herself in the knowledge
that he had finally started making a name for himself in the more respectable
world of acting.

"Yes, I'm proud of my Lenny for coming off the streets of the East End and
making something of himself," she says.

He played bootlegger Eddie Davies in the ITV customs drama The Knock, and his
role in last year's hit thriller movie sensation Lock, Stock And Two Smoking
Barrels got rave reviews. He also had a part in Luc Besson's sci-fi epic The
Fifth Element, alongside Bruce Willis, and the story of his life, The Guv'nor,
was the surprise best-selling biography of 1998.

"He was so proud of his acting," says Val. "We all were. He loved mixing with
well-known people and was a natural in front of the camera."

It was a cruel irony that Lenny died just when he had finally escaped his
violent past. For, in many ways, his marriage to Val was the story of their
struggle to survive unscathed, emotionally and physically, as a couple despite
what Lenny did for a living. It was a struggle that started within days of their
first meeting.

Val laughs as she casts her mind back to the late 1960s and recalls, "Lenny
McLean was my mum and dad's worst nightmare come true..." This is not surprising
when you consider their different backgrounds.

The second of four daughters, Val had been raised by her mum and stepfather in a
quietly-proud, well-mannered working-class home in Bethnal Green, East London.

Lenny was a popular lad with good looks and easy humour on his side.  But years
of abuse by a brutal stepfather had left him with a tinderbox temper that had
already earned him a criminal record and a growing reputation as a local
hardman.

Captivated by the 19-year-old she'd met in an East End pub, Val did what every
respectable 17-year-old girl would do - she took him home to meet her parents.

"It was a disaster," she recalls. "Lenny had just been released from Borstal. He
sat at the tea table and happily told my mum all about his criminal past. I
cringed and prayed he'd shut up. And the second he was out the door, my mum
said, 'When are you going to pack him up? He's not right for you'."

Lenny was quickly banned from their household. Val must have had her own second
thoughts - especially after an argument involving her mother.

"Lenny arrived at our house carrying a Chinese takeaway," says Val. "Mum told
him to go away. So he threw the food at her - and she threw it straight back at
him."

Val, however, understood the source of Lenny's rage - his stepfather - and could
see through the tough guy image.

"I knew from the very first night I met him that he was the one for me," she
says.

At 18, Val and Lenny got married. They moved into a two-bedroom flat with an
outside toilet in Hoxton, East London. For the first two years, they were
inseparable.

"He was the first and only man I ever slept with and that made us very close,"
says Val. "He worked as a foreman for a window cleaning company and tried to
live a straight life. He was so proud of the kids. He'd walk them up and down
Hoxton Square in the pram, showing them off to everyone.

"But then he began hanging around with his old mates again. I think he felt he'd
married young and was missing out on the single life."

It was the beginning of a double life for him. At home, Lenny was never anything
but the good-natured, affectionate man Val had fallen in love with. But out in
the East End he mixed with a dangerous crowd, earning a precarious living
through theft, burglary and petty crime.

"I learned not to ask about what he got up to when he walked out of the door,"
says Val. "Lenny obviously wanted to keep us out of it and simply refused to
discuss it. To be honest, I didn't want to know."

Lenny then found a way to turn his skills with his fists into a way of earning a
living. He challenged a bare-knuckle prizefighter called Roy Shaw to a contest
and their bloody battle saw the birth of his reputation.

"Lenny had fought people bare-knuckle before - gypsy champions at fairs, that
sort of thing - and he always won," says Val. "He was sure he could beat Shaw
who was a kind of unlicensed, unofficial world champion.

"Lenny didn't bother to train for their first fight, but he was so strong that
he managed to fight him to a draw. They fought twice more. Lenny did some proper
training and each time he won. After that people began calling him 'The Guv'nor'
because he was the best in the world at what he did."

The three fights earned Lenny a national notoriety. Challenges arrived from all
over the country with purses often worth tens of thousands of pounds. In a
series of gory bouts, Lenny trampled aside all opposition.

On one occasion he was even flown to New York to fight a Mafia don's champion, a
24 stone, six-foot eight-inch monster called John McCormack.  Lenny battered him
unconscious in minutes, hitting him so hard that he broke both his hands.

Val recalls only too clearly her struggle to come to terms with the knowledge
that her man earned a living by stepping into a ring to fight in a no-rules
contest, going head-to-head with opponents who had sworn to cause him serious
harm - or even to kill him if they could.

"Lenny never worried one little bit - he saw the whole thing as two big men
getting into a ring and having a row," she says.

"He was one of only three people in the country who could bench-press 500lbs and
I tried to tell myself no one could hurt him. I only went to watch him fight
once, which was at a charity dinner in Tottenham. It was frightening. This huge
aggressive bloke beating his opponent to bits in the ring wasn't the Lenny I
knew. I hated the violence and after that we agreed that we wouldn't talk about
it."

At work, Lenny diversified into working as a doorman, while his frightening
reputation had a few added benefits.

"My brother almost had a crash one night in Bethnal Green with a car carrying
five tough-looking lads," Val says. "They were ready to beat him up but backed
down the minute Lenny's name was mentioned."

However, being the hardest man in London was a double-edged sword. Lenny became
a magnet for violence and was the victim of a terrifying drive- by shooting at
the Barbican nightclub in Smithfield meat market in East London.

Lenny was blasted at close range in the arm and backside with a 12-bore shotgun
by a hitman on a motorcycle. He survived, with the help of a team of surgeons,
but it was only a matter of time before trouble reached his own doorstep. One
morning he answered the door to Billy Quinn, a young boxer with a grudge. He
pulled a pistol and fired four shots into the McLean family home before turning
and fleeing.

"It was the first time I was ever truly frightened by Lenny's work," recalls
Val.

It didn't stop there. Val began getting sinister silent telephone calls. Then,
one night there was knock at the front door. "I looked out and saw two chaps
dressed in black and wearing motorcycle helmets," Val says.  "'Does Lenny McLean
live here?' he shouted. My heart was pounding. 'No, you've got the wrong
address,' I replied.

"They thought about it for a second then walked slowly away. I knew that they
had come to kill my Lenny."

Another time, a lone gunman fired a .22 bullet into Lenny's back as he got into
his car at a nightclub in New Cross, South London. Once he'd been patched up at
a local hospital Lenny hunted down the would-be assassin and sorted the matter
with a single blow from his notorious fists.

"They stopped trying to kill him after that," says Val. "They realised it was
too risky. If you were going to shoot Lenny you had to make sure you finished
him off 'cos if he could still move he would come after you.  Then he'd tear you
apart with his hands."

One evening in 1990, a former mental patient high on drugs, Gary Humphries,
staggered naked into a club that Lenny was minding and began pestering women.

"Naturally, I just gave him a backhander and threw him out," Lenny said at the
time.

Humphries went on a four-hour naked rampage in central London, which ended in a
violent struggle with arresting police officers. He was taken to a nearby
hospital where he suddenly died - and Lenny found himself facing a murder
charge. Lenny spent nine months in prison on remand before being cleared at the
Old Bailey.

"I lost my voice for three months after Lenny was charged," says Val.  "I knew
he was innocent but I was scared I was going to lose him on a trumped-up charge.
He was facing 20 years. I was so happy when the jury found him not guilty but
the experience changed him. He was like a madman when he was first released,
full of anger and a feeling of injustice."

Lenny's brush with a life sentence left him determined to leave his street
fighting days behind and his wish came true following a chance meeting with the
EastEnders star Mike Reid who, like him, was visiting Reggie Kray at Maidstone
Prison one day.

Reid said that Lenny should consider acting and Lenny agreed with him, telling
Val, "Belt somebody on the outside and they give you two years.  Do it on screen
and they give you two grand."

With his customary determination, Lenny got an Equity card and began his
transition to working in a slightly more respectable profession.

His approach to acting was, for his family, both frustrating and amusing.  "He
never read the scripts and only bothered to learn his own lines," says Val. "So,
he'd be acting with all these famous people and we'd be all excited saying,
'What happens next - does he get killed or not?' Lenny would shrug and say
'Don't know - I'm not in that scene'."

Sadly though, Lenny wasn't able to sustain his dream of being a successful
actor. His illness began as attacks of breathlessness on the set of Lock, Stock.

Typically, Lenny's reaction was to train harder. He began running five miles a
day instead of his normal three, but medical tests revealed extensive cancer of
the lungs and brain, and doctors told a shocked Val that her husband had a year,
at most, to live.

As Lenny said in his book, "Even when I faced guns and knives I never considered
my days might be numbered. I'm planning retirement with Val - then, bosh, it's
all over."

The disease progressed with devastating speed and, on July 28 last year, he
passed away at home with his family around him.

"He never lost his strength or his sense of humour," says Val. "He was laughing
and playing practical jokes days before his death. Lying there, he looked like
the strong, handsome man I'd married all those years ago.  He even had a
peaceful smile on his face as if he was having one final joke on everyone."

Lenny's funeral was an old-fashioned East London affair with all the trimmings,
but his passing showed Val both the best and worst sides of human nature.

"Lenny's friends and family have been brilliant," she says. "They've always been
there for me making sure I'm able to cope, but the reaction of my own family was
a shock. They didn't even send flowers. I don't know if I can ever forgive them
for that."

Alone for the first time since she was a teenager, Val has now begun the long
task of building a life and identity of her own.

"It's not easy," she admits. "I know Lenny loved me with all his heart.  I miss
his cuddles so much and the way he could always make me laugh, but he put me on
a pedestal and refused to let me have a life of my own.  I was expected to be on
call for him 24 hours a day.

"'Talking to any other man was completely out of the question. Can you imagine
anyone being brave enough to chat to Lenny McLean's wife? Even his mates didn't
like being alone with me in case Lenny got the wrong idea.

"Lenny was larger than life and he had to be the centre of attention. Everyone
had to shut up, listen to what he had to say and agree with him.  He lived life
like one big drama and I was his personal audience. Now I've got to discover who
I am."

Whatever the future holds, Val has promised herself she won't allow Lenny's
other world to impinge on her family's lives.

"It would be too easy to use his reputation to get things done," she says.
"Lenny knew some dangerous people and I try hard to keep them at arm's length,
but if someone gives me or the kids a hard time, I know that a single telephone
call would result in that person getting sorted out good and proper.

"Sometimes it's very tempting but I'll never make that call because I know it
would be letting down everything he and I ever worked for."

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MY MAN: Val remembers Lenny who "lived life like one big drama";
Picture: MIKE MOORE;; LENNY: The family man with Kelly, Val and Jamie (top); and
the fighter (left); THE KNOCK: Ian Burfield and Lenny;; LOCK, STOCK: With
director Guy Ritchie

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              159 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            February 7, 1999, Sunday

Focus: Does peace have a chance?; In the 10 months since the Good Friday
Agreement, sectarian violencein Northern Ireland has not gone away. Loyalists
are re-arming, the threat of bombing is back and punishment beatings are meted
out daily

BYLINE: BY DAVID McKITTRICK

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 21

LENGTH: 1505 words


People are being assaulted in Northern Ireland almost on a nightly basis, as IRA
and loyalist toughs burst into their little backstreet homes, hold them down and
fire shots into their legs or smash their limbs with baseball bats.

Peace process or no peace process, the paramilitary enforcers still go about
their barbaric business. It was ever thus: in the 1970s their predecessors used
to tar and feather "soldier dolls," young girls accused of fraternising with
British troops.

After all the years and all the horrors of the troubles many thought they were
beyond shock, yet the sight on their televisions of Andrew Peden, victim of one
such attack, caused some to wince and to weep.

Loyalists shot him so badly nine months ago that both his legs had to be
amputated. An infection in one of his stumps will not heal. He cries often when
he gives interviews. He looks smaller than his children; his wife says that when
she cuddles him in bed it's like cuddling a child.  His life is ruined.

The continuation of such barbaric practices has caused many to question the
worth of the peace process and the value of the efforts to lead former
paramilitants on a journey away from bombs and into the democratic processes.

Many in Britain, horrified at the unending catalogue of brutality, ask whether
things are as bad as they seem. With typical Northern Irish complexity, one
answer is that in some ways it's better than it seems, while in others it's
actually worse.

IT'S PROBABLY worse than many in Britain imagine, in that their newspapers and
televisions don't convey to them a comprehensive picture of the scale of
"low-intensity" violence. At the moment they are hearing much about the
punishment attacks, but these are just one type of incident.

Although many parts of Belfast remain disfigured with high "peace lines"
designed to keep sectarian factions apart, there are still places where youths
gather to chuck bricks at each other. Much more seriously, an organised campaign
of loyalist intimidation is under way, with Catholic homes the target for petrol
bombings a couple of times each week.

Petrol bomb attacks, though terrifying for the families targeted, are rarely
lethal, but every so often they take life: last year, for example, a loyalist
attack claimed the lives of three young brothers during the Drumcree Orange
marching stand-off. They are one of the reasons why the authorities are forced
to maintain a busy emergency rehousing scheme, as intimidated families beg to be
taken out of danger.

Those using the scheme include many police families. In a reversal of the
general pattern of the Troubles, the police now have more difficulty with
loyalists than with republicans. Most of the RUC families who move home do so
because of loyalist threats or attacks.

In the town of Portadown in Co Armagh, which has become Northern Ireland's heart
of sectarian darkness, loyalists continue to protest against the banning of last
year's Drumcree march. Just last week, for example, a 200-strong mob attacked
police lines with bricks, bottles, stones, fireworks and ball bearings fired
from powerful catapults.

Seventy RUC officers have been injured in protests since last year's Drumcree
march. One of them, Constable Frank O'Reilly, lost his life, dying two months
after being hit in the face by a blast bomb. He was a victim of the Red Hand
Defenders, the latest lethal outfit to emerge from the loyalist underworld, who
also seem to be responsible for most of the sectarian petrol-bombings.

The persistence of such incidents is very familiar in that it is highly
reminiscent of pre-Troubles Belfast. There never was a tranquil golden age back
then, as a trawl through the press archives quickly reveals: even during the
supposedly quiet years newspaper columns teem with reports of disturbances,
riots, arson and street clashes.

The unpalatable fact is that Northern Ireland has never been at peace and at
ease with itself, and that the settlement of all the destabilising political and
territorial issues, and the healing of the scars left by the Troubles, is going
to take decades.

The widespread perception, however, is that things in Northern Ireland are as
bad as ever they were, that the peace process must be a hollow sham and that
it's all back to square one. The cold statistics tell a different story, a story
which offers some comfort.

IN THE 53 months leading up to the first IRA ceasefire of August 1994, 420
people died violently. In the 53 months since then 115 people have been killed,
a very substantial reduction. To make another comparison: deaths at the
beginning of this decade were running at an average of 92 a year while the
annual average is now 28.

A number of the 115 most recent killings are difficult to classify. But 40 were
killed by loyalists, 20 by the IRA, 29 by the Real IRA in last August's Omagh
bombing, and 12 by the INLA. One encouraging sign is that, since Omagh,
ceasefires have been declared by three previously active groups, the Real IRA,
the INLA and by the Loyalist Volunteer Force.

It may surprise many to learn that loyalists have been responsible for such a
high toll, and that the IRA has carried out fewer than one fifth of the killings
of the last four years. This is, however, part of the familiar phenomenon that
IRA violence will always receive more attention than that from other quarters.
At the moment this is additionally because of an odd but highly effective
tactical alliance which includes former republicans, unionists and the
Conservative party. Ulterior political motives do not, however, negate the heart
of the issue, which is whether republicans should now be admitted into a new
Northern Ireland administration.

One stance is to hold that anyone even suspected of associations beyond the
strictly political should be excluded from the political system.  One problem
with such a purist approach, however, is that the previous Conservative
government had protracted dealings with the IRA even as it was setting off bombs
in London and in Warrington.

Another is that quite a few unionist representatives have past associations with
some highly dubious organisations and individuals. On the unionist side politics
can be a rough old trade, as Ulster Unionist MP Ken Maginnis and others found
last week when they were kicked and punched by crowds of protesters who included
members of the Rev Ian Paisley's party.

The goal of the present government is to get Sinn Fein into government, but to
do so by securing the assent of Unionist leader David Trimble.  This is a
difficult proposition, given his insistence that the IRA must first decommission
weaponry and the matching republican insistence that they will not.

The search for a middle way in all this is expected to take the form of an
intensive negotiation, perhaps beginning later this month and reaching a
conclusion by the target date of 10 March. If it fails, nobody really knows what
might happen; if it succeeds, the peace process will have survived yet another
apparently insurmountable hurdle, and will move on.

Either way the backstreets will continue to be the scene of barbarities.  Even
if there is progress, it will provide only marginal consolation to those such as
Andrew Peden who are suffering so grievously.

But although violence may be endemic to Belfast, the killing rate is falling.
While the peace process offers no magic solutions, it seems incontestable that
without it many people who are alive today would be in untimely graves.  It is
not a perfect peace: if it were, there would be no need for a peace process.

A YEAR OF TROUBLES

April 1998: Good Friday agreement signed. Two Catholic men killed by loyalists.

May: Agreement endorsed in referendums north and south. Gardai in Irish Republic
shoot dead member of Real IRA during armed robbery.

June: Elections to new NI assembly.

July: Drumcree marching stand-off in Portadown. Hundreds of violent incidents.
Protests subside after three children die in firebomb attack on house.  IRA
kills Andrew Kearney in "punishment" attack.

August: Bomb planted in Omagh, Co Tyrone, by Real IRA kills 29 people including
Protestants, Catholics and Spanish tourists. Afterwards British and Irish
governments pass strong new anti-terrorist laws. Ceasefires declared by Real
IRA, INLA and LVF.

September: Unionist leader David Trimble meets Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams
for the first time.

October: RUC officer dies from injuries inflicted by loyalist blast bomb in
August. Catholic man shot dead by loyalists in north Belfast.

December: David Trimble and John Hume collect Nobel peace prize in Oslo.  LVF
hands in some weapons for decommissioning.

January 1999: One-time "supergrass" and IRA critic Eamon Collins beaten and
stabbed to death in Newry, Co Down, by unknown republicans. Punishment beatings
and shootings by republicans and loyalists rise to rate of almost one a day.


LOAD-DATE: February 09, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              160 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            February 7, 1999, Sunday

VIPS AND TOP MPS ALERT OVER NEW IRA DEATH LIST

BYLINE: By Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


SECURITY chiefs yesterday put top politicians on red alert against the renewed
threat of IRA assassination.

They wrote to or phoned hundreds of VIPs, including military top brass and
businessmen, warning that their names could be on a new death list.

MI5 fears rebel Republicans will launch a wave of bombings, murder and mayhem on
the mainland within weeks.

The secret "be on guard" letter - obtained by the Sunday People - was sent by
the Home Office Terrorism Unit to potential targets. It makes chilling reading.

It says: "Republican terrorist groups could, without there being any further
warning, return to using violence on the mainland. If that did happen, the
assessment is that public figures would continue to be viewed as potential
targets.

"A close-quarter shooting or a device placed under a car remain the biggest
concerns."

The warning follows mounting fears that IRA rebels fed-up with the faltering
peace process are set to resume bombings in Britain.

Last night security was already being stepped up around those most at risk, such
as Premier Tony Blair, Home Secretary Jack Straw and Ulster Supremo Mo Mowlam.

Some high-profile figures have been phoned personally and advised to take extra
care.

Former Lords Tory leader Viscount Robert Cranborne was even contacted by top IRA
defector Sean O'Callaghan on Friday and told he has been marked down for
assassination.

"The IRA now want to kill him because in Irish Republican terms that would be
the kind of victory they thought they had when they murdered Mountbatten," said
O'Callaghan.

The letter warns potential targets to vary their routine to make them more
difficult to kill. It adds: "Information on a target's vulnerability is
collected by the terrorists prior to attacks being carried out," the circular
adds. Former Premiers Margaret Thatcher, John Major and Ted Heath are among
those at risk.

So, too, are previous Northern Ireland Secretaries, such as Douglas Hurd.

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown would be another target, because he served
as a marine in Ulster.

Also at risk are Andrew Hunter, outspoken chairman of the Conservative Northern
Ireland backbench committee, and Tory chairman Michael Ancram, an ex -Ulster
minister.

Defence chief Sir Charles Guthrie and senior police officers like Metropolitan
Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon are also in danger. O'Callaghan has learned
from his sources in Belfast that Viscount Cranborne, sacked by Tory leader
William Hague for going behind his back on Lords reform, is a marked man.

He said: "The Republican movement sees him as a Tory grandee and Unionist
supporter who is against the Good Friday agreement.

"They see him as involved in a plot to de-stabilise the agreement." But last
night Cranborne shrugged off the threat. "I'm on the side of the angels," he
said.

O'Callaghan and Robert Cranborne became unlikely friends when they both
campaigned for a yes vote in last year's referendum to set up the Northern
Ireland Assembly.

The former terrorist, who served eight years for two murders and commanded the
IRA's East Tyrone battalion before turning informer, is himself under sentence
of death.

They both believe that breakaway groups are nothing but a front for dissident
Provos.

O'Callaghan thinks the Provos are planning a "spectacular" to show their muscle
before handing in any guns.

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STARK: The warning letter sent to the IRA targets;; PERIL: John Major;;
THREAT: Cranborne

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              161 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            February 7, 1999, Sunday

Terror leader plots attacks on British targets

BYLINE: Insight: David Leppard, Chris Hastings, Jessica Berry and Uki Goni in
Uruguay

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 548 words


THE terrorist leader responsible for bombing two American embassies in Africa is
believed to be plotting to attack British missions in Europe.

Western security sources say Osama Bin Laden has put "high profile" British
targets on a hit list, including embassies in Brussels and Paris.

Evidence that Bin Laden sees Brussels as a "soft target" is understood to have
been collected by the British security services from intercepts of coded
telephone calls made to Britain by Said Mohkles, an Eygptian suspected of having
close links with Bin Laden. He was arrested in South America nine days ago and
the CIA says he was about to fly to London to assemble a terrorist cell.

The CIA suspects Mohkles participated in the 1997 massacre of 58 tourists at
Luxor in Egypt; six Britons died in the attack. He is being held in a police
cell in Uruguay pending a possible extradition to Cairo to face murder charges.

MI5, the domestic intelligence agency, believes Bin Laden is seeking revenge
after Britain supported American missile strikes against his headquarters in
Afghanistan last summer.

Some sources also believe he wants to punish the British because Scotland Yard
arrested Khalid al-Fauwaz, one of his key fixers.

Until recently Fauwaz, 35, lived with his wife and three children in north
London. Now he faces extradition to America after a New York court charged him
with conspiring with Bin Laden and "others unknown" to murder Americans abroad.

The Foreign Office said last week that its officials wished to interview
Mohkles. "We are aware of the arrests, which we are following up. The matter at
the moment is primarily for the Uruguayan authorities who are holding the
detainee," said a spokesman.

Bin Laden already faces charges over the murder of more than 260 people in Kenya
and Tanzania last year. The Sunday Times has obtained 300 pages of FBI documents
which detail the alleged links between Fauwaz, a Saudi businessman and Bin
Laden's terror network.

Fauwaz is accused of plotting the murder of Americans abroad; he denies the
charges but the documents, lodged in a New York court by the FBI, include
statements from a terrorist supergrass and at least two other Bin Laden
terrorist suspects naming Fauwaz as a key player.

These are supported by bank, credit card, telephone and fax records belonging to
the Advice and Reformation Com mittee, a Saudi dissident group which the FBI
claims is a Bin Laden front organisation.

Papers with Bin Laden's signature, obtained by The Sunday Times, show how the
terrorist leader appointed Fauwaz as director of his London office in July 1994.

Computer files seized by the FBI from terrorist suspects in Africa suggest that,
in the months leading up to the American embassy bombings, Fauwaz gave "specific
instructions" to the east African ter rorist cell that carried out the two
atrocities.

The FBI also claims that Fauwaz helped communicate fatwas - religious orders -
from Bin Laden, encouraging his Islamic followers to murder Americans.

The threat to British embassies has heightened. Just before Christmas four in
Africa were closed for security reasons.

Insight: David Leppard, Chris Hastings, Jessica Berry and Uki Goni in Uruguay

The global terrorist Focus, page 19


LOAD-DATE: February 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Insight

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 12, 1999

UN could monitor Lockerbie men in jail

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 570 words


IN A last-ditch attempt to get Libya to hand over the two suspects wanted in
connection with the Lockerbie airliner bombing, Britain is making the
unprecedented offer of allowing United Nations personnel to be permanently
stationed in a Scottish jail where the men would serve their sentences if
convicted.

The Guardian has learned that Britain is asking Kofi Annan, the UN secretary
-general, to supply monitors to work inside the top-security wing of Glasgow's
Barlinnie Prison if the two intelligence officers are found guilty.

The proposal, approved by Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, was said last night
to have been been received positively in Tripoli, as were assurances that
Abdel-Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah would not be interrogated - so
that any damage to the regime and its security chiefs could be limited.

"We are encouraged that we are getting to a successful endgame," said a senior
British source. "The offer of a UN role seems to have been helpful in giving
Gadafy greater confidence that the two will not be interrogated.

"We will not let out any sighs of relief until they land in the Netherlands
(where any trial would take place), but it is now more of a possibility than
ever before."

Under the proposal, the special wing at Barlinnie would have a UN designation
and UN staff would be involved in supervising or monitoring the prisoners,
though normal security procedures would apply. There is no question of granting
extra-territorial status to the cells.

The offer caps six months of frantic secret diplomacy to secure justice for the
270 victims of Pan Am flight 103, brought down over Lockerbie in December 1988
in the worst act of terrorism in contemporary British history.

Last August, Britain and the United States dropped their demand for a trial in
the US or Scotland, instead offering one under Scottish law at a specially
prepared former Nato air base near Utrecht.

News of an apparent breakthrough came after a South African envoy, Jakes
Gerwell, travelled to Libya this week after seeing Mr Cook in London on Monday.
Professor Gerwell, President Nelson Mandela's chef de cabinet, earlier visited
the Saudi ambassador to the US, Prince Bandar bin Sultan.

If Libya does not accept this proposal there is little hope left that the case
can ever come to trial, as the US is already pressing for the imposition of
tougher sanctions when the UN embargo on Libya is reviewed in a fortnight. Both
Washington and London have made clear the sanctions will be in effect lifted
once the suspects are surrendered.

"We don't regard this (UN monitoring offer) as a concession, but we can't go
beyond this," the British source said. "This is a test of Gadafy's intentions.
If he rejects this now, it's hard to see what grounds he has left for continuing
to resist."

Libya is insisting that the two, if convicted, would have to serve their
sentences in their own country. Mr Cook said this week there would be no
alternative to jail in Scotland.

Yesterday a Saudi newspaper, Asharq al-Awsat, quoted "informed sources" as
saying an announcement of a handover was imminent.

Britain and the US changed course on the trial venue because they felt sanctions
were being eroded, especially by African and Arab states - some secretly
receiving Libyan cash support or cheap oil - which have been ignoring the UN ban
on Libyan flights.


LOAD-DATE: February 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               February 14, 1999

Bomb alert as Irish terrorists slip MI5 net;
Gang vanishes after selling car in London

BYLINE: HENRY MCDONALD AND YVONNE RIDLEY

SECTION: The Observer News Page; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 623 words


AN ACTIVE terrorist unit which is planning a 'spectacular' bombing campaign in
mainland Britain has disappeared from under the noses of MI5 agents.

The security services mounted round-the-clock surveillance on two cells of the
Continuity IRA after intelligence reports indicated the rogue terror group was
going to bomb a high profile target.

But it has now emerged that one of the cells has slipped the net, forcing
heightened security at key sites including 10 Downing Street.

'Security status has rocketed because there is a very real perception the
Continuity IRA will try and mount a spectacular within the next two weeks,'
admitted an MI5 source yesterday.

Both terrorist units arrived in England in early January and were under 24 -hour
watch.  Furious security sources in Northern Ireland and Britain blame MI5 for
losing the suspects in London.  The terrorists' car had been tagged so that
their movements could be monitored by from a safe distance.

However, the car was sold at an auction last week. When the surveillance team
realised what had happened and returned to the unit's base in North London, its
four operators, quartermaster, controller and driver had vanished.

Republican sources believe the CIRA will attempt to launch an attack in Britain
close to the 10 March deadline for devolution of political powers to the new
Northern Ireland administration at Stormont.

The sources say the CIRA units in England are being held back by a senior figure
in Republican Sinn Fein who wants to use the same period to start a mainland
bombing campaign aimed at destabilising the peace process.

CIRA and Republican Sinn Fein share the same analysis - that the Good Friday
Agreement has secured the province's position within the UK and the Sinn Fein
leadership have sold out basic republican principles.

MI5 sources fear a terror campaign is 'imminent'. Yesterday there was evidence
of heightened security around Westminster, Government departments and military
bases.

'Whoever was watching Continuity in London have messed things up, at least for
now. They had them under 24-hour surveillance until last week and then they lost
them,' said an RUC source.

Losing track of republican terror cells in Britain has led to disastrous
consequences over the past 30 years.

In 1983 the British police and MI5 bungled a surveillance operation which had
targeted Provisional IRA bomber Patrick Magee.  The security services lost Magee
and another IRA activist in Blackpool as they were planning to bomb an army
barracks near the Lancashire resort.

Although the IRA aborted that attack, Magee remained at large in Britain and was
able to carry out the Brighton bombing a year later which almost wiped out the
Conservative Cabinet.  The Continuity IRA is the only republican terrorist group
not on ceasefire. So far it has been unsuccessful in mounting any bombing
attacks in Britain.

Since the first Provisional IRA ceasefire in August 1994 it has been responsible
for a series of attacks on commercial and security targets in Northern Ireland.

These include bombings of Protestant-owned hotels in County Fermanagh and gun
attacks on RUC stations in County Armagh and west Belfast and an Army base in
Derry. However no one has been killed in any CIRA attack over the past four
years.

Until late last year the Continuity IRA had a limited support base in border
areas such as Fermanagh, Donegal and South Armagh.

However it has been recruiting recently in Belfast, where it staged a botched
attack on the security forces last month.  A number of men in their twenties are
being held on charges connected with the gun attack on Woodburn RUC station in
west Belfast.


LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 15, 1999, Monday

BROTHER OF YEMENI TRIAL MAN DEPORTED AS TERRORIST

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


A Birmingham man was deported from the Yemen just hours after his brother was
charged with plotting terrorist atrocities in the Middle Eastern country.

Mr Fiaz Hussain, aged 29, from Bordesley Green, had flown to the Yemen on Friday
to support his 26-year-old brother Ayaz Hussain.

But when he arrived in the southern port city of Aden, he was told to "get out"
and branded a terrorist by airport security forces.

Ayaz Hussain and his cousin, Shazad Nabi (20), also of Birmingham, were charged
by Yemeni authorities on Friday after being held for two weeks.

They appeared in court for the first time with two other men, Algerian Ali
Mohsen, and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), son of the London-based Muslim
fundamentalist leader Abu Hamza al-Masry. They joined five other Britons and a
Frenchman already standing trial for allegedly plotting to attack an Aden hotel
on New Year's Eve, a restaurant, a church and a United Nations office.

Hussain and Nabi pleaded not guilty to the charges, but Kamel admitted one
charge of forming an armed group. He denied charges of weapons possession.

Last night Birmingham solicitor Mr Mandyp Singh Sehgal said it appeared Kamel
was the "jewel in the crown" of the Yemeni authorities' claims, and suggested he
could be used by the authorities to "get Hamza".

Hamza, whose extradition from Britain is being sought by the Yemen, has
dismissed his son's confession, saying it was the result of intimidation.

And a spokesman for the Justice for Britons in Yemen Campaign said they were not
surprised by Kamel's confession in court.

"It is not surprising he would confess to avoid being beaten. Clearly he has
been promised that the beatings will stop if he confesses," he said.

The trial on Saturday, during which more than 300 policemen armed with AK-47
rifles surrounded the courthouse, was adjourned until Tuesday to allow the
defence more time to prepare its case following the new charges.

Shahid Butt (33), Malik Nassar Harhra (26), both from Small Heath, and Samad
Ahmed (21), from Yardley, Mohsin Ghalain (18) of London, and Ghulam Hussein (25)
from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), all deny plotting terrorism and
murder.

Last night Mr Fiaz Hussain told how he flew to Aden via Jordan on Friday and was
back in Birmingham by Saturday night.

He said he was called a terrorist by the airport officials and put on a plane to
Jordan without being allowed to make a telephone call.

"The man said 'Who gave you permission to come here? You are a terrorist'. He
then told me to 'Shut up and follow me'," he said.

"I then started to fear for myself, and could understand what my brother is
going through."

In Jordan, Fiaz managed to get in contact with the British Consul in Yemen, Mr
David Pearce, and Mr Sehgal in Birmingham.

He was advised to remain in Jordan for a few days while the problem was sorted
out, but after several hours he was put on a plane back to Birmingham.

"I am really, really gutted. I can't believe this has happened to me. I was
there legally with a visa," he said.

Yesterday the Foreign Office told him they had received a message for the Yemen
authorities saying that they regretted what had happened, and he would be
granted access if he returned.

Mr Hussain is now seeking a refund for his airline ticket and a new visa, which
was ruined by the Yemeni officials.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              165 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               February 15, 1999

Surrender of Lockerbie suspects 'closer than ever';
Cook welcomes breakthrough as UN secretary-general seeks binding agreement from
Gadafy

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 674 words


THE United Nations secretary-general, Kofi Annan, is seeking a binding agreement
with Libya on the surrender of the Lockerbie bombing suspects, but it must be
finalised within the next 11 days or the United States will insist on tightening
sanctions.

Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, said last night the surrender of the two
intelligence officers accused of murdering 270 people in December 1988 was
'closer than ever before". But diplomats warned that Libya could still try to
impose new conditions.

Mr Cook's public optimism, after a weekend of dramatically rising expectations,
was based on contacts with the South African and Saudi envoys who met Colonel
Muammar Gadafy in Tripoli last week. They reported back to London on Thursday
that a handover for a trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands was now close.

Col Gadafy has written to President Nelson Mandela of South Africa, setting out
his agreement, albeit in what officials called 'confused, florid and
circumlocutory' terms.

'What we need is to tie down the general agreement to the principle of the trial
in the Netherlands with a clear specific understanding from Colonel Gadafy,' the
Foreign Secretary said.

Mr Annan will write to the Libyan leader in the next 24 hours.

Britain has gone to extraordinary lengths, often in the face of US reluctance,
to coax Libya to hand over Abdel Basset al-Megrahi and Lamen Khalifa Fhimah, who
were accused in 1991 of the bombing of Pan Am flight 103 in the worst act of
terrorism in aviation history. Nearly 200 of the victims were Americans.

'I am not going to sigh with relief until the two men touch down in the
Netherlands,' Mr Cook said. 'But I am encouraged by the progress that has been
made after months of hard effort.'

If a precise agreement is not reached quickly, the US plans to push for tougher
sanctions when the embargo is reviewed by the UN Security Council on February
26, with British officials privately acknowledging that this is probably the
last chance for the Libyan leader to prove he is serious.

But Col Gadafy's letter to President Mandela, an old friend and ally, was seen
as the clearest sign yet that he is prepared to sacrifice two junior
intelligence officers, while protecting their still-serving superiors and
limiting the damage to his regime, to end sanctions.

Expectations of a successful outcome have risen and fallen since last August,
when Britain and the US announced their initiative for a trial under Scottish
law in the Netherlands, where a former Nato air base near Utrecht is being
prepared for the purpose.

But the apparent breakthrough came last Wednesday, when Jakes Gerwell, Mr
Mandela's chef de cabinet, and Prince Bandar bin Sultan, the Saudi ambassador to
the US, told Col Gadafy that Britain was prepared to allow UN monitors to be
permanently stationed in Glasgow's Barlinnie prison, where the men will serve
their sentences if convicted.

Libya had earlier insisted the two must serve their sentences in their own
country. But Mr Cook told Professor Gerwell and a Saudi envoy this was not
possible.

'I sent them a clear message that we could not compromise on the fact that the
imprisonment had to take place in Scotland, but we were willing to look at the
involvement of the UN in supervising the separate prison wing,' the Foreign
Secretary said.

Mr Cook first raised the idea of a neutral venue for the Lockerbie trial in
private conversation with the US secretary of state, Madeleine Albright, in
December 1997.

If successful, it will be a welcome coup for Mr Cook, bruised by revelations
about the break-up of his marriage and the row over the arms-to-Africa affair.

But a trial may not end in conviction because of the difficulty of proving that
the suspects built and planted the radio bomb that blew up the Pan Am Boeing.

Robert Black, professor of Scots law at Edinburgh University, said yesterday:
'If it is right that the evidence against these two is flimsy, then Libya is
going to be smelling of roses.'


LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              166 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               February 15, 1999

M15 'loses' team of bombers

SECTION: Boxfile: Western Morning Views (Letters), Pg.16

LENGTH: 132 words


MI5 has lost track of a team of dissident republicans planning a spectacular
bombing attack in London in a bid to disrupt the Northern Ireland peace process,
it was claimed yesterday.

Security services mounted a round-the -clock surveillance operation on two cells
from the Continuity IRA after intelligence reports that the terror group - the
only republicans not on ceasefire - was going to bomb a high-profile target,
according to the Observer.

But one of the cells has slipped the security net, said the paper, prompting a
tightening of security around key sites, including 10 Downing Street.

The Home Office said it could not comment on the report.

However, just over a week ago the Home Office confirmed that a review of
security across mainland Britain had been mounted.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              167 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 15, 1999

MI5 'lost IRA bombers out to wreck peace bid'

SECTION: News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 336 words



MI5 has lost track of a team of dissident republicans planning a spectacular
bombing attack in London in a bid to disrupt the Northern Ireland peace process,
it was claimed today.

Security services mounted a round-the-clock surveillance operation on two cells
from the Continuity IRA after intelligence reports that the terror group - the
only republicans not on ceasefire - was going to bomb a high profile target,
according to the Observer.

But one of the cells has slipped the security net, said the paper, prompting a
tightening of security around key sites, including 10 Downing Street.

The Home Office said it could not comment on the report.

However, just over a week ago the Home Office confirmed that a review of
security across mainland Britain had been mounted. The review was ordered amid
fears dissident republicans were poised to strike out.

The Northern Ireland peace process is poised to enter a critical phase.

Tomorrow, the new Assembly meets to debate the structures of devolved Government
for the province and cross-border co-operation bodies to be operated with the
Irish Government.

If all goes to plan, powers will be devolved to the Assembly from Westminster
on, or soon after, March 10.

The Continuity IRA and its political bedfellows in Republican Sinn Fein believe
Gerry Adams and Sinn Fein sold out the republican cause when they signed up to
the Good Friday Agreement.

The dissidents see it as copper-fastening rather than loosening the Ulster link
with Britain, and are pledged to fight it.

Since the IRA called its first ceasefire in 1994 the Continuity IRA has been
behind a series of bombings including blockbuster attacks on hotels in the Co
Fermanagh lakeland.

More recently it has spread its wings from border areas and is believed to be
recruiting in Belfast.

Last month a number of men were arrested and charged following a gun attack on
the RUC Woodbourne base in west Belfast. The CIRA was believed to have been
behind the attack.



LOAD-DATE: February 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              168 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               February 16, 1999

Bin Laden man held amid fears of UK bomb plot

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 368 words


A PLOT by Islamic terrrorists to bomb targets in Britain may have been foiled by
French police, it was revealed yesterday.

A close associate of Osama bin Laden, the Moslem militant dubbed the world's
most wanted terrorist, was arrested as he tried to leave Paris.

Ahmed Loudaini, 30, had just returned from a visit to London when he was seized
at the Gare du Nord railway station on January 18 by members of the internal
security service. Loudaini, a Frenchman of Algerian origin, was carrying a chart
of coded information which is currently being analysed said police sources.

A warrant for his arrest had been issued by a judge over his alleged involvement
in an Afghan-Arab terror ring. Loudaini is being held in custody.

Judicial sources are heralding his capture as a breakthrough in the clampdown on
Arab terrorism in Europe. It is understood Loudaini was apprehended following
co-operation between French and American intelligence units.

Laidoni, a petty criminal who grew up in the northern suburbs of Paris, became a
mercenary on the side of the Moslems during the Bosnian war, according to
police.

He is believed to have had weapons and explosives training in camps in Pakistan
and Afghanistan.

Loudaini's arrest comes at a time when bin Laden's whereabouts are the subject
of speculation following his disappearance in Afghanistan several days ago.

The Saudi Arabian reportedly organised the bombing of U.S.

embassies in Africa last year, killing 250 people.

* Two British aid workers narrowly escaped injury when Islamic extremists bombed
a cultural centre in northern Pakistan in retaliation for the bombing of Iraq by
Britain and America.

The pair were watching television in their residential quarters at the British
Council in Gilgit, close to the Afghan border, on Saturday night when two
home-made canister bombs, packed with explosives and shrapnel, were thrown over
the wall of their compound.

The devices exploded yards from their front door, blowing out all the windows on
the ground floor of the council building.

Two other aid workers, including the head of the centre, Dr Keith Prenton, 52,
were not in the building at the time.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              169 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               February 16, 1999

Mercenaries told to avoid Kosovo

SECTION: Pg.27

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITISH-BASED mercenaries have been warned off seeking business in strife-torn
Kosovo, the Government announced yesterday.

The Foreign Office announced new measures designed to prohibit British nationals
and companies from providing training or training facilities for terrorists
planning actions in the Yugoslav province.

The prohibition - a breach of which would be punishable by a maximum of 14 years
imprisonment - outlaws the provision of such services in Britain, Yugoslavia or
anywhere else.

The ban comes in the wake of the arms-to-Africa affair, which involved
investigations into British "military consultants" Sandline International
supplying arms to Sierra Leone in breach of UN sanctions.

That affair prompted an official report by Sir Thomas Legg which urged the FCO
to publicise legislation in the area.

It also resulted last week in FCO officials being criticised strongly by the
Commons Foreign Affairs Committee.

A desire to avoid any repetition of that kind of controversy looks likely to
have encouraged yesterday's announcement by the FCO. An FCO spokesman was
careful to stress that there was nothing to suggest that any British firm or
individuals were actually involved in training terrorists in Kosovo.

Various pieces of anti-terrorism legislation make terrorist training activities
illegal in the UK, and the new measures prohibit British nationals from training
people to carry out terrorist acts in Kosovo, not just within the UK, but abroad
as well.

The ban came as the international conference at a French chateau near Paris,
aimed at reaching a settlement between the Serbs and the Albanian guerrilla
fighters they regard as terrorists, entered a high-pressure final week.

The United States, Russia and the rest of the international community is
pressing for a resolution of the Kosovo conflict by next weekend.

Any timetable to deploy British troops in Kosovo still depends on the peace
talks in Rambouillet agreeing a settlement. But if the two warring sides sign up
to a deal, thousands of British troops could be in the region within a matter of
weeks rather than months.

Yesterday, 400 tanks, armoured vehicles and artillery batteries were loaded on
to two military "strategic lift ships" - the Sea Crusader and Sea Centurion,
which were to sail from Emden in Germany overnight. On Saturday, the deadline on
the Rambouillet peace talks runs out. If there is no agreement, the ships turn
round and return to Germany.

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              170 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 16, 1999

UK soldiers of fortune told to keep out of Kosovo

BYLINE: John Deane

SECTION: News, Pg.16

LENGTH: 461 words





MERCENARIES based in Britain have been warned off seeking business in strife
-torn Kosovo, the Government announced yesterday.

The Foreign Office said new measures have been designed to prohibit British
nationals and companies from providing training or training facilities for
terrorists planning actions in the Yugoslav province.

The ban - a breach of which would be punishable by a maximum of 14 years
imprisonment - outlaws the provision of such services in Britain, Yugoslavia or
anywhere else.

The ban comes in the wake of the arms-to-Africa affair, which involved
investigations into British ''military consultants'' Sandline International
supplying arms to Sierra Leone in breach of UN sanctions.

That affair prompted an official report by Sir Thomas Legg which urged the
Foreign Office to publicise legislation in the area. It also resulted last week
in FO officials being criticised strongly by the Commons Foreign Affairs
Committee.

A Foreign Office spokesman was careful to stress that there was nothing to
suggest that any British firm or individuals were actually involved in training
terrorists in Kosovo.

Various pieces of anti-terrorism legislation make terrorist training activities
illegal in the UK, and the new measures prohibit British nationals from training
people to carry out terrorist acts in Kosovo not just within the UK, but abroad
as well.

The ban came as the international conference at a French chateau near Paris,
aimed at reaching a settlement between the Serbs and the Albanian guerilla
fighters they regard as terrorists, entered a high-pressure final week.

The United States, Russia and the rest of the international community is
pressing for a resolution of the Kosovo conflict by next weekend.

The peace talks have been extended for another week, with the Serbs coming under
intense pressure to reach a deal with ethnic Albanians or face possible Nato air
strikes.

The two sides have been given a deadline of noon on Saturday to talk - with U.S.
Secretary of State Madeleine Albright warning that ''the threat of Nato air
strikes remains very real''.

Meanwhile ships carrying British tanks and armoured vehicles were yesterday
expected to sail to join a possible peace-keeping force in Kosovo.

About 400 Challenger tanks, Warrior armoured vehicles and AS 90 self- propelled
gun batteries were being loaded on to ferries in Germany ready to leave for the
Balkans.

The heavy weaponry would form a key part of any peace-keeping force sent into
Kosovo if the warring sides reach a settlement at the talks in France.

Foreign Office Minister Tony Lloyd yesterday announ-ced the immediate
implementation of an arms embargo on Ethiopia and Eritrea called for by the
United Nations.


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              171 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          February 17, 1999, Wednesday

You ask the questions: (Such as: Gerry Adams, was your decision to join the
peace process strategic or moral?)

SECTION: FEATURES; Page 8

LENGTH: 1680 words


Gerry Adams, 50, has been president of Sinn Fein since 1983. In 1971 he was
interned for suspected terrorist activity. He is now MP for Belfast West, and
was an active negotiator for Sinn Fein during the forging of the Good Friday
agreement.

Who has been the greatest influence on your life?

Cecile Stewart, Chippenham

There have been so many people. . . my parents, my grandmother, Colette, Christ,
Mairead Farrell, Bobby Sands and many more. It would be wrong to single out a
particular individual.

Do you see an end to the punishment beatings?

Helena Jack, Edinburgh

Yes. They should stop immediately. We also need a new policing service and
criminal justice system, as well as the involvement of the community.

Until the Police Commission has reported and until we have a proper policing
service, we still need to tackle in a non-violent, legal but effective way the
problem of antisocial and criminal behaviour. Some elements have sought
selfishly to exploit the existing gap in the justice system. One response to
this in the last two years has been the formation of a number of
community/neighbourhood watch groups. They have significantly improved the
quality of life of people living in areas of Belfast like Twinbrook and
Poleglass and the Whiterock.

Nor is the problem resolved by vigilantism or by battering young people, some of
whom are unfairly categorised as "hoods". The notion of restorative justice is
required, in which the community plays a proactive role in reforming and
rehabilitating criminals. The community must agree the principles underlying any
restorative justice programme.

What is your opinion of Michael Collins: hero or traitor?

Steve Holloway, Nottingham

I don't see people in that context. Everyone has to be judged in their own time,
and while I believe that Collins should not have accepted the treaty in the way
he did, there were many, many other leaders involved.  His death during the
Irish civil war was tragic proof of the efficacy of the tactic of divide and
conquer which has underwritten Britain's involvement in Ireland.

Have you ever thought of packing it in, and going to live in America and earning
a fortune?

Student, University of Ulster

I have never thought of going to live in America, though I would like to visit
there and many other places in a more leisurely and more casual - anonymous -
way. Nor have I thought of earning a fortune. But I have thought of packing it
in. . .

I live in Warrington and I'm of Northern Irish Catholic descent. I was in
Warrington with my young son on the morning of the bomb attack.  My relatives in
Northern Ireland and myself were deeply affected by the event. Do you think that
it was a catalyst in the rapid progress of the peace agreement in the aftermath?

Thomas Conlon, Warrington, Cheshire

The killing of Jonathan Ball and Tim Parry in Warrington, though it was clearly
a mistake, was wrong. I know I was deeply moved by the death of the two boys. It
is difficult to know exactly how much of a catalyst this particular incident
was, because unfortunately there have been many such tragic incidents involving
young people killed by either the IRA, the loyalists or the British Crown
forces.

The families of the two boys killed at Warrington, like many of the other
families of victims, behave with great dignity and courage. I like to think that
all of these killings are an incentive for those of us who are committed to
building a lasting peace settlement. Unfortunately, and regrettably, the horror
of these incidents appears to be forgotten or ignored by some elements.  For
example - despite the cruelty of last summer, when three little Catholic boys
were burned to death in Ballymoney at the height of the Orange marching season -
the siege of Garvaghy Road has continued unabated. And the awfulness of the
Omagh bomb seems now to have been forgotten by some elements.

What we all need to do, and this includes the British and the Irish governments,
is to ensure that the peace process works, that not a single other person is
killed, and that a lasting peace is established.

Which historical figure do you admire most?

John Lister, Cornwall

On a global scale, I am a huge admirer of Nelson Mandela. And in my own life, I
like to think that history is made by little people who rarely get mentioned in
the history books, but who day in and day out make their own history. In this
phase of Irish history, I meet such people every day and they are generally
good-humoured, dignified and unassuming as they go about the task of creating a
new society. I have huge admiration for these people. Interestingly enough, I
find at a community level that most of the most radical and modest activists are
women.

Was your decision to join the peace process strategic or moral?

Anne Sheehan

There is a moral imperative to find an alternative to conflict. Irish
republicans have always recognised this and Sinn Fein's involvement in the
search for a peace strategy sprang from that necessity.

Sinn Fein wants to demolish the physical, psychological and political barriers
which divide the people of this island. These owe much to the legacy of our past
and continued British jurisdiction in Ireland, as well as to partition.

The peace process is about tearing down these barriers. It is about creating a
new dispensation on this island in the new millennium which raises our common
humanity above the prejudices and divisions of our past.

Sinn Fein's political objective is a united Ireland free of British
interference. Everything we do is intended to advance that entirely legitimate
and realisable goal. We see a 32-county republic as the best way to eradicate
the range of political, social, economic and other inequalities which affect the
people of this island.

Have you lost friends and relatives in the troubles?

Margaret Collins, Pinner, London

Yes. There have been over 20 members of Sinn Fein killed, and another similar
number of family members, many of them personally known to me.  My
brother-in-law, Patrick Mulvenna, was shot dead by the British Army in 1973.  My
cousin Kieran Murphy was mutilated and killed by the Shankill butchers, and in
January of last year my nephew-in-law Terry Enright, a young man with two infant
children, was killed by loyalists in the killing spree around Christmas. My
brother was very seriously injured when shot by the British Army and I also was
wounded when a loyalist death squad shot me. Numerous friends have been victims
of loyalist and British forces. In my constituency of West Belfast hundreds of
people have been killed.

What women's issues do you support? And which do you oppose?

Jane Clark, London

Equality. In Ireland women are discriminated against in every facet of our
society - an experience common throughout the world. It is wrong.  It is an
intolerable situation and one which must be challenged at every opportunity and
changed. Equality is a basic human right and it must be applied and defended.

The issue of what is described as a woman's "right to choose" is an important
matter with serious implications for Ireland. Every year in Ireland at least
5,000 Irish women travel to Britain for abortions. While not supportive of
abortion on demand, our party policy on this issue recognises a range of social
and medical circumstances which can give rise to women having abortions, such as
where a woman's mental and physical well-being of life is at risk, or in grave
danger.

What books and political events have had the greatest influence on you?

Patrick Fox, Basingstoke, Hants

I suppose the writings of Alice Walker had a big influence on me in terms of
feminism, and Labour in Irish History by James Connolly, which is a socialist
republican analysis of our history.

On the international stage, the achievement of democracy in South Africa, the
reunification of Germany, and the collapse of the USSR, are surely indications
that no situation is intractable and that everything is possible.

Locally, in my teens in 1964 when the RUC, at the behest of Ian Paisley, smashed
into a Sinn Fein election office on the Falls Road and seized the Irish national
flag which was displayed there. This event kick-started my sense of political
consciousness. Five years later, the pogroms in Belfast which were the reaction
to the civil rights struggle here. The seminal event for all republicans of my
generation were the hunger strikes of 1980 and 1981 in which 10 prisoners died.

Is the Good Friday agreement more at risk now than it has ever been?

Anon

The onus for delivering and implementing the agreement during this period will
be very much on the British Government. The success of the agreement will depend
upon Britain establishing the agreed structures so that power can be transferred
from London and Dublin within the time-frame outlined, by 10 March. If they fail
to do this, which I think most unlikely, then the Unionist veto will have
prevailed and the wreckers and rejectionists will have won.

We must not allow this to happen. The Good Friday agreement is what we have.  It
represents what is possible at this time; not the preferred option of any of the
participants - certainly not Sinn Fein's.

Who is your favourite comedian?

Adrian O'Grady, Ulster

I enjoy John Cleese very much. Patrick Kielty can be funny the odd time.  The
Hole in the Wall Gang aren't bad. On reflection I probably prefer comedies to
comedians.

Can you describe yourself in two sentences?

Judith Mahoney, Strabane

Yes. Tall, bearded and bespectacled.

Next Week

Bobby Charlton, followed by Clare Short

SEND ANY questions for footballing legend Bobby Charlton and Clare Short,
Secretary of State for International Development, to: You Ask the Questions,
Features, The Independent, 1 Canada Square, London E14 5DL (fax 0171-293 2182;
e-mail yourquestions@independent.co.uk), by 12 noon on Friday 19 February


LOAD-DATE: February 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              172 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 19, 1999, Friday

UK DIPLOMATS TO LEAVE YUGOSLAVIA;
 PLEA FAXED TO SERBS IN LAST-DITCH PEACE BID

BYLINE: Simon Bird Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 683 words


Britain is moving non-essential diplomatic staff and families out of Yugoslavia
as the deadline for Nato air strikes to force a Kosovo peace deal looms.

The embassy in Belgrade made its moves as the British and French Foreign
Ministers yesterday went over the heads of politicians and appealed directly to
the people of Yugoslavia to accept the peace plan.

Foreign Secretary Mr Robin Cook and his French counterpart, Mr Hubert Vedrine,
said the alternative is to face a return to the "cycle of internal conflicts"
and isolation that have marked the country's recent history.

In a joint statement faxed to media in Yugoslavia, Mr Cook said their country
"will be required to take a very serious decision in the next few hours". This
will "have far-reaching consequences for you and the whole of Europe."

The two Ministers then outlined the case for the peace plan, adding: "Many wars
have been waged on our continent through the centuries, but modern Europe has
put a full stop on all these conflicts. It has instead built a solid unity based
on cooperation and understanding."

The appeal was read on at least one Belgrade radio station.

A deadline for peace talks taking place in France between Serbs and rebel
Albanians is tomorrow. Nato has been readying itself for the threatened air
strikes.

The fax continued saying bloodshed "can never solve ethnic and national hatred",
adding "the same is true in Kosovo. Peace is within reach and the international
community is united in its determination that the parties should grasp it".

"We believe the Kosovo solution lies in substantial autonomy,' but the formula
can only work if both sides agree to compromise. The Kosovo Albanians will have
to give up their demand for independence and recognise the rights of other
ethnic groups in Kosovo," the statement said.

"Serbs will have to acknowledge Kosovo's right to a high-degree of self-
governance."

They also said that both sides must accept that the agreement "will have to be
underpinned by an international military presence", which the Belgrade
government has so far rejected.

The Ministers insisted there was no international conspiracy against the Serbs:
"We want your isolation to end. We do not want to reject you.  All this now
depends on you."

But there was little sign that the government of President Slobodan Milosevic
was about to back down on the key point of Nato troops to enforce any peace
agreement.

Meanwhile, the United States gave a personal warning to Milosevic on the
consequences of failing to reach a Kosovo peace deal, and stepped up plans for a
military strike over Russian protests.

US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said she had delivered the threat of
Nato air strikes against Serbian targets in a telephone conversation with
Milosevic. It was her second call with the Yugoslav leader this week.

"He should understand that if air strikes occur he will be hit hard and he will
be deprived of the things he values," she said.

The State Department also announced that she would leave Washington today and
make her second trip to France in a week to press Serbs and ethnic Albanians to
reach a peace agreement.

Mr Ivica Dacic, for the ruling Socialist Party, said Yugoslavia was ready to
"defend ourselves against any aggressor whether it is called Nato or something
else".

"Threats of attacks against our country only encourage the terrorists," he said,
referring to ethnic Albanian rebels. "To all threats we will respond by a clear
determination to defend our country and state sovereignty."

The news agency for Montenegro, the other republic in Yugoslavia besides Serbia,
reported that some Yugoslav military reservists - primarily in air defence units
- had received mobilisation orders.

Serbian negotiators have so far strongly resisted proposals for a 30,000- strong
Nato peacekeeping force to be deployed in Kosovo.

However, international mediators at the peace talks in France were encouraged by
the initial Serb response to the re-drafted proposals, drawn up overnight
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Flying visit: Nato Secretary-general Mr Javier Solana, and Macedonian
Defence Minister Mr Nikola Kljusev inspect a guard of honour at Skopje airport
yesterday with Gen Wesley Clark (left).

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              173 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           February 21, 1999, Sunday

TRIMBLE A TARGET AS TERRORIST GROUPS FRAGMENT

BYLINE: By Nigel Nelson And Jason Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 505 words


NORTHERN Ireland's First Minister David Trimble is set to confirm that he is
being targeted for assassination by loyalist terror groups.

The Ulster Unionist leader is on the hit lists of LVF breakaway factions, the
Orange Volunteers and the Red Hand Defenders, a close aide told Sunday People
last night.

And in a further blow to the Northern Ireland peace process, the Sunday People
has also learned from reliable republican sources that the Provisional IRA is on
the verge of splitting.

Seventy of its 350 members are about to peel off to join the Continuity IRA
which already has two death squads ready to strike in Britain.

The Orange Volunteers and the Red Hand Defenders - which now also goes under the
name of the Loyalist Reaction Force - are also after Mr Trimble's Number Two,
SDLP deputy leader Seamus Mallon.

"These renegades are so fanatical it is unbelievable," said one loyalist.

"They are like Ulster's Hezbollah. They hate Trimble more than they hate Gerry
Adams."

And a senior RUC detective added: "We are putting every spare officer onto the
breakaway loyalist groups.

"Security has been stepped up around all high-profile pro-agreement politicians
including Mr Trimble and Mr Mallon."

The loyalist splinter groups and the IRA hardliners about to break away from the
Provos are opposed to the Good Friday Agreement, setting up the Northern Ireland
Assembly and the decommissioning of paramilitary weapons.

A top Unionist source confirmed that Mr Trimble is aware of the danger he is in.

"There's a substantial terrorist threat," he said. "Extremists in both
republican and loyalist circles will certainly target senior figures and small
fringe elements are engaged in threats to senior Unionists at this time.

"They will stop at nothing to inflame the situation but we are determined they
will not succeed."

Republican sources predict that the IRA will not begin to hand in its weapons by
the March 10 deadline when legislative powers pass from London to Belfast - but
they may do so before May 22, the first anniversary of the referendum on the
Good Friday Agreement.

It is the handing over of weapons that is likely to trigger the split.

MI5 and Special Branch fear that a CIRA bomb has already been moved into
position in Britain.

British officers have bungled a number of security operations at ports in the
past six days. They have stopped and searching innocent Irish people by mistake
and have had to apologise afterwards.

n Mr Trimble raised eyebrows in a Commons bar last week by joining a former IRA
double-killer minutes after talks with Premier Tony Blair in Downing Street.

Mr Trimble spent 20 minutes in Parliament's Sports and Social Club chatting to
Provo defector Sean O'Callaghan who is himself a marked man after turning
informer.

Mr O'Callaghan refused to comment on the meeting but Gary Kent, chair of the
cross party British-Irish peace group, said: "It's no great secret that Sean
meets a wide variety of politicians."

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              174 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           February 22, 1999, Monday

THEME FOR THE DAY

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 504 words


Is it natural to prefer the company of people who think like us, to whom we
don't have to explain why we dress or vote or worship the way we do? I suspect
that when our ancestors lived in little clan groups, being suspicious of people
who were different might help you to live longer.

But that is no excuse for hating people who are different, and even less for
stirring hatred against them. What served our ancestors well can be destructive
for us - like lighting a fire in the middle of your living room! Perhaps there
is in us the seeds of something that can lead to massacres, ethnic cleansing and
holocausts. There is something else, too, fascination with difference, healthy
curiosity about other ways of living. These draw strangers together and can be
enormously rewarding. They're the things to cultivate. If there are the seeds of
racism in me, may God forgive them, and help me to weed them out.

Peter W Russell

Methodist Minister, Birmingham

FROM THE PAST

200 YEARS AGO: It appears certain that Prince Frederick of Orange is dead of a
malignant fever, which he caught in visiting the military hospitals. He died on
the 6th and not the 26th of December as French papers formerly reported. Our
court will go

into mourning eight days for him.

Aris's Birmingham Gazette, February 1799.

100 YEARS AGO: The funeral took place on Saturday afternoon, amid scenes of
great respect and sympathy, of Mr William Thomson Cabbe, the esteemed
superintendent of the Birmingham Medical Mission. Several thousand persons
attended, showing the popularity of the late doctor and appreciation of his
professional services and kindly advice among the poorest of Birmingham
citizens.

The Birmingham Daily Post, February 1899.

50 YEARS AGO: A "tangible and practical step" towards the creation of an
industrial museum in Birmingham should be taken this year in the view of the
Deputy Mayor of Birmingham, Alderman A.F. Bradbeer.

The Birmingham Post, February 1949.

ON THIS DAY

Birthdays: Entertainer Bruce Forsyth, 71; American politician Senator Edward
Kennedy, 67; motor-racing champion Niki Lauda, 50; Irish rugby union footballer
Noel Murphy, 62; actress Julie Walters, 49.

Anniversaries: 1789: Birth of the first President of America George Washington;
1797: Last invasion of Britain took place when the French landed at Fishguard to
be made prisoners; 1886: The Times ran the first ever classified personal
column; 1972: An IRA bomb at Aldershot killed seven; 1947: Lord Louis
Mountbatten appointed last Viceroy of India; 1971: Major General Idi Amin
promoted himself to President of Uganda; 1991: Iraqis set fire to Kuwait's oil
installations.

28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AX

Editorial: Tel 0121 236 3366. Fax: 0121 625 1105

THEME FOR THE DAY

Ian Hinton Andrew Jones Dawn Sweeney

200 YEARS AGO

Aris's Birmingham Gazette, February 1799

100 YEARS AGO

The Birmingham Daily Post, February 1899

50 YEARS AGO

The Birmingham Post, February 1948

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              175 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 22, 1999, Monday Edition 2

Suspects held over Omagh bombing

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words


   Another man was arrested today by detectives investigating the Omagh bombing
outrage.

He was detained at Tyro-ne

It is believed he is associated to the 32 County Sovereignty Committee, the
political group linked to the Real IRA which carried out the attack which left
29 people dead.

The bombing six months ago was Northern Ireland's worst terrorist atrocity.

Detained

The man, aged 44, who was detained today is the third to be held by police in
Northern Ireland. Detectives at Strand Road have already interviewed two other
men, both from Cullyhanna, south Armagh, about the attack.

Another five - and possibly six - men have been detained in Monaghan and
Carrickmacross in the Irish Republic. More arrests are expected.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              176 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      February 22, 1999, Monday Edition 4

More are held over Omagh bombing

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 139 words


   SEVERAL further arrests were made in Northern Ireland today by police
investigating the Omagh bomb outrage.

These followed the arrest of two men from South Armagh and another five in
Monaghan and Carrickma-cross in the Irish Republic at the weekend.

The RUC declined to say how many people had been detained today, but it is
understood they were arrested during security operations in both Omagh and South
Armagh.

Linked

One man was arrested at Tyrone and Fermanagh Hospital at Omagh and driven to
Londonderry for interrogation.

It is believed he is associated to the 32 County Sovereignty Committee, the
political group linked to the Real IRA which carried out the car bombing which
left 29 people dead and more than 350 injured.

The attack six months ago was Ulster's worst single terrorist atrocity.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              177 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 24, 1999, Wednesday

CITY LAWYER TELLS OF YEMENI POLICE ABUSE

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 442 words


A Birmingham solicitor held for 24 hours in police cells in the Yemen claimed he
had been physically assaulted.

Mr Rashad Yaqoob, who is co-ordinating the defence of eight Britons - including
five Birmingham men - on trial for alleged terrorism in Yemen, was arrested
outside the Movenpick Hotel in Aden on Monday.

He was escorting a doctor to jail to carry out an independent medical
examination on the prisoners when he was taken by armed police to the Criminal
Investigation Department headquarters where the accused men had first been held.

Mr Yaqoob, aged 27, was released yesterday without charge.

Last night he claimed he had been physically abused by the arresting officers
who stamped on him, slashed him with a set of keys, and repeatedly pressed a
loaded gun against his ribs.

A spokesman for the Justice for the Britons in Yemen Campaign said Mr Yaqoob was
told by his interrogators to get out of the country and warned to leave in the
next few days or he would be deported.

"Mr Yaqoob suffers from a chest infection and has been experiencing frequent
bouts of coughing during the last few weeks. During his interrogation, he first
vomited and then began to cough uncontrollably until he fainted," the spokesman
said.

Mr Yaqoob was transferred to an Aden hospital before being released.

"The campaign is extremely shocked," said the spokesman.

"It is incredible for Yemen to try to convince the world that they do not
practice or condone torture, while assaulting one of the lawyers in this way."

Mr Yaqoob's sister, Ms Salma Yaqoob, aged 28, said her brother had been given no
explanation for his detention, which she alleged was intended to prevent him
from publicising the court hearings.

She said: "We believe it was just a crude attempt to shut him up, because the
Yemeni authorities are annoyed at the fact that he has been able to get news of
what is going on in court out to the outside world."

Mr Yaqoob is due to return to Britain tomorrow. Meanwhile, the trial of the
eight Britons was yesterday adjourned until Saturday.

Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, all Birmingham, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London,
Ghulam Hussein (25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), deny
associating with armed groups, plotting murder and destruction, and illegal
possession of weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist atrocities in the Yemen. They were
charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17).

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Released: Mr Rashad Yaqoob.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              178 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          February 27, 1999, Saturday

YEMEN TERROR DETAINEES BEG FOR A BRITISH DOCTOR

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words


Five Birmingham men on trial for plotting terrorist atrocities in the Yemen have
sent a message back to Britain begging for a doctor to be sent to examine them.

The men, who return to court along with three other Britons today, also
reiterated their claims that they had been tortured, beaten, and in some cases
sexually abused, in an open letter to Mr Tony Blair, Tory leader Mr William
Hague, Mr Paddy Ashdown of the Liberal Democrats and "the British public".

The plea for a British doctor came the day that Birmingham solicitor Mr Rashad
Yaqoob returned to Britain, claiming he was held at gunpoint and drugged by
security forces in the Yemen.

Mr Yaqoob was arrested on Monday outside a hotel in Aden and was held in police
cells for 24 hours.

He returned to the UK yesterday morning after his Yemeni visa expired.

He said he was beaten, slashed, and had a gun held to his head.

"At one point they got a bunch of keys and dragged them across my chest. I've
got lacerations on my chest and on my back," he said.

"They then put a gun to my head and they said: 'You've caused a lot of problems
for us. Why don't you keep your mouth shut'."

Mr Yaqoob, aged 27, said he later fainted in custody and was taken to hospital,
where he claimed he was drugged and rendered unconscious.

"While I was out, they got my thumb, put it in an inkwell and tried to get my
thumbprint on a confession statement," he said.

"I don't know what it said as it was in Arabic. It was unbelievable.

"These are the people who beat up and tortured our boys, the detainees."

Mr Yaqoob said his jailers were local security force officers in Aden, and as
soon as the Yemeni central government heard he had been arrested he was
released.

The next day he was allowed to see the British men alone for the first time,
when they signed the plea for a British doctor.

The letter, released by supporters of the men in London last night, was signed
by Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad
Ahmed (21), from Yardley, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green.

It was also signed by Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein (25), from
Luton, Frenchman James Louvres (30), Algerian Ali Mohsen, and Mohammed Mustafa
Kamel (17), of London.

In the letter, the detainees insisted their alleged confessions were beaten out
of them, and two had been sexually abused.

They added: "The legal proceedings are a farce and we are incredibly scared that
we will continue to be tortured and found guilty of something we have not done."

The list of medical complaints included Butt suffering palpitations due to
stress, Ahmed and Hussein suffering chest problems and breathing difficulties.

They also said Ghalain has serious liver pains and has shown signs of jaundice.

The detainees complained they cannot sleep at night and are verbally threatened
in the jail and on their way to the court.

The letter ended: "We desperately need a British doctor because the doctors here
have not even taken urine or blood tests from us, nor have they fully examined
us, and they are waiting for our injuries to heal before allowing a defence
doctor in.

"Please send a British doctor to see us and please come and intervene and even
bring us to Britain or a neutral country to try us fairly and justly.

"We have nothing to hide."

Seven of the Britons have denied associating with armed groups, plotting murder
and destruction, and illegal possession of weapons in the Yemen.

Kamel, son of London-based Muslim fundamentalist Abu Hamza al-Masri, has
admitted forming an armed group.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: They then put a gun to my head and they said: 'You've caused a lot of
problems for us. Why don't you keep your mouth shut.' Rashad Yaqoob.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              179 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           February 28, 1999, Sunday

INVESTIGATION: HOW I BEAT THE POUNDS 11M DOME SECURITY NET WITH 40P CUP OF TEA
AND 2 SLICES OF TOAST;
 IT'S SUPPOSED TO TAKE 7 DAYS' VETTING BY SCOTLAND YARD AND MI5 TO GET INTO
TERRORISTS' POUNDS 750M TARGET - BUT SUNDAY MIRROR MAN WAS INSIDE FOR 3 HOURS
AND NO-ONE CHALLENGED HIM

BYLINE: Graham Johnson Pictures By Paul Draper

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 1204 words


THE Millennium Dome is Britain's number one target for terrorists - yet I
penetrated its security with a cup of tea and two of slices of toast.

Scotland Yard and the FBI predict that the pounds 758million showpiece could
become the focus of doomsday cults and publicity-seeking extremists.

Threats of mainland bombings from the Real IRA splinter group have led to "ring
of steel" roadblocks in the City of London, military bases being put on alert,
and an pounds 11million security cordon around the Dome site at Greenwich, South
London.

It should take seven days' vetting by Scotland Yard and MI5 to get into the Dome
- but I wasn't asked for identification even once. I sneaked in on the same day
the Minister in charge of the New Millennium Experience, Lord Falconer, boasted
about the project to a Commons Select Committee. As he spoke, I...

STROLLED through six security cordons without being challenged.

PENETRATED the Dome's inner sanctum housing its highly vulnerable 11,000- volt
power generators.

MINGLED with a police search team and stood next to their van.

READ sensitive building blueprints which had been left lying around.

CLIMBED onto the site's huge lifting cranes.

SPENT three hours exploring the Dome.

SHARED a cup of tea with construction workers and security guards in the staff
canteen.

The Sunday Mirror probe was triggered after a construction worker at the
Millennium Dome told us: "Security is a joke."

The steel-fixer, who did not want to be named, fears the Dome will be blown up
or sabotaged before it is completed. He said: "Everyone who works on the site
goes though a seven-day security vetting process by Scotland Yard and MI5, and
the security people Group 4 give you a lesson on security.

"If you're cleared you get a pass with a hologram and photo on it. But the
tragedy is no-one ever asks you to show it. No-one wears them because security
is so lax. The joke on-site is that you can walk through any security gate if
you're carrying a cup of tea and a butty - because no-one ever hassles a builder
on his break."

I decided to put those claims to the test. And it was all true.

My first stop was Travis Perkins builders' merchants in Charlton, less than a
mile from the site. I bought a hard hat for pounds 5.99 and a yellow luminous
safety vest for pounds 6.00.

Tommy's cafe was the next stop, to pick up a 40p cup of tea in a polystyrene cup
and two rounds of toast costing 30p.

These staple snacks of the Great British Workman were to be my passport into the
most expensive celebration of British culture in history.

Accompanied by photographer Paul Draper I drove to a car park at the Pilot Inn,
less that a quarter of a mile from the Dome and the "local" for its 300 workers.
Then, tea and toast in hand, I walked through two manned security barriers on
construction roads which feed the site with men, plant and materials.

At both barriers the guards stayed in their wooden huts - and merely
acknowledged me by smiling and nodding their heads.

Then I walked through a gate in a steel fence into a building area where workers
were laying pipes next to the half-finished Jubilee Line tube station.

I was approached by a foreman employed by Nuttalls contractors. I thought my
number was up but he asked me: "Where are you trying to get to?" I pointed to
the Dome - and he gave me directions to the main gate.

I sauntered passed a third security barrier. When the guard put down his
newspaper and stood up from his chair I raised my access-all-areas cuppa into
the air and breezed by.

After walking about 20 yards I was stopped by another foreman. "Have you got the
time?" he asked.

At the main gate at the entrance to the Dome there was a road barrier flanked by
two Group 4 security guards.  A sign said all visitors must report to security
and another said passes must be worn at all times.

But only four out of 48 workers I encountered had their passes on display.

I walked straight through the pedestrian entrance to the left of the barrier.
Another 20 paces and I was standing inside the biggest dome structure on the
face of the earth - 20 acres of space and light built to house the exhibits
which celebrate 2,000 years of British culture. For a few minutes I stood still,
awestruck with its vastness, and excited at being one of the first of 20 million
visitors.

My silence was interupted by the arrival of a police van. I thought the game was
up.

A sign on the front said Police Search Team. A constable and a WPC in combat
-style uniforms and carrying torches walked directly towards me - then went
straight past holding a set of plans as they checked doorways and stairwells.

When they moved off, I was able to walk up to their van and stand next to it for
five minutes. If I had been a terrorist that would have been enough time to
disable the vehicle, seriously reducing their ability to deal with an emergency.

Next I headed for another potential terrorist target - the site's electrical
powerhouse. This restricted-access room houses the equipment which controls the
power supplied to the Dome from on-site generators.

I moved on again, strolling around each of the partially-built exhibits,
including the Body Zone, National Identity, Mind and TransAction.

Each has its own interactive visitors' centre. Nobody stopped me as I ran up and
down the stairs and in and out of rooms.

One scaffolder offered to take a photograph of me and another offered to guide
me safely through the minefield of pipes, cables and steel rods.

On to the Millennium Dome Preview Centre, where VIPs, sponsors and senior
managers hold on-site meetings. I spent 20 minutes reading the display boards
and my presence was never queried. I looked at floor plans and architectural
blueprints. Other plans were scattered on the floor where builders were on a tea
break. I could have stolen them with ease, but by now I had decided to go back
to find my photo- grapher colleague.

This time we used cups of tea and bacon sandwiches to fool the security guards -
and within minutes we were inside the Dome.

We spent an hour in there, chatting to security guards, builders and surveyors.
I was even given a sneak tour of a huge construction crane - another nearby
crane was unmanned and could have been used to create havoc.

Next we went to the staff canteen, 10 yards outside the Dome but still within
the "highly-restricted" zone. We shared the room with 20 builders.

I had spent three hours in the Dome. And I felt appalled at how easy it had been
to breach the security.

Chief Superintendent Brian Younger, who is in charge of the Metropolitan Police
Millennium Team, said last month: "We have to be aware that the whole Millennium
year could be the focus of terrorist attack."

Scotland Yard are spending pounds 7million this year protecting the Dome. The
New Millennium Experience has a pounds 4 million security deal with Group 4.

But the steelworker who revealed the security lapses said: "Loads of people come
on site. Mates of blokes working there, people in selling stuff.

"All you need to do is walk through the gates holding a cuppa and a sandwich."

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PALLY: This Group 4 guard didn't ask for a pass;; UNGUARDED: I could
easily have caused havoc with this unmanned crane;; MILLENNIUM EXPERIENCE: I was
able to climb high on to a platform at the very centre of the Dome. Right, how I
got in with my cuppa and snackELECTRIFYING:; The "inner sanctum" power
stationSHOCKING: Terrorists could sabotage this generator

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              180 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            March 4, 1999, Thursday

PRESIDENT: WE COULD HAVE DONE MORE TO STOP MASSACRE

BYLINE: Lucy Hannan In Kampala, Andrew Buncombe And Kim Sengupta Martin Friend,
one of the four murdered Britons; An Australian survivor of the attack
recovering at the British High Commission in Kampala yesterday; AP/Jean-Marc
Bouju'

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 493 words


THE PRESIDENT of Uganda yesterday promised to hunt down the Hutu rebels who
murdered four Britons and four other Western tourists. He also admitted that his
government had not done enough to protect the victims.

At a press conference in Kampala, the Ugandan capital, Yoweri Museveni
apologised for the deaths and said his men were tracking the killers. "If we
don't catch them, we shall kill them," he said.

"Given the criminal nature of mind of these rebels which are spread throughout
the region,the authorities should have had the foresight to take precautions in
Bwindi, which is close to the Congo border," the President said. "We therefore
regret this mistake. On the one hand, it is the criminality of the rebels, but
on the other hand there was also laxity on our own people in guarding these
wonderful visitors of ours."

His comments came as officials were last night preparing to fly home the bodies
of the four Britons who were murdered by Hutu rebels in Bwindi National Park in
the early hours of Monday.

The Foreign Office yesterday confirmed the identities of the Britons killed as
Martin Friend, from Kent, Mark Lindgren, 23, from Hertfordshire, Steven Roberts,
27, from Edinburgh, and Joanne Cotton, from Essex.

Among the survivors were Gary Tappenden and Fiona Morley, both from Kent, and
Mark Avis, 27, who has joint British and New Zealand nationality. They were
still in Kampala.

The two dead Americans were named as Rob Haubner, 48, and his wife, Susan
Miller, 42. The New Zealand victims were identified as Rhonda Avis, 27, of
Auckland, and Michelle Strathern, 26, of Timaru. Mrs Avis and her husband - who
survived the attack - lived in New Zealand.

The family of Mr Tappenden revealed that their son had been with Mr Friend when
the gunmen attacked. He rang home on Tuesday to tell them he was alive but he
had no news of his friend.

"Gary will be distraught," his father, Robert, said yesterday.

The bodies will be flown back to Britain either later today or tomorrow. The
survivors are also due to return to Britain today. The Foreign Office said
post-mortem examinations had been carried out by the Ugandan authorities.
Results were not yet known.

A team of FBI agents yesterday flew into Kampala from the Kenyan capital
Nairobi, where it had been investigating last autumn's bomb attack on the US
embassy. At the invitation of the Ugandan government, the agents have started
interviewing the survivors of the kidnapping.

The military adviser at the British High Commission in Kampala yesterday visited
the campsite where the attacks took place. Survivors say the rebels burnt alive
one of the Ugandan guards.

The Hutu rebels selected English-speaking tourists to take revenge on Britain
and the US for supporting the Tutsis in the Rwandan 1994 genocide, when Hutu
extremists massacred 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus.

Massacre aftermath, page 3

Jan Morris, Review, page 5

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              181 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            March 13, 1999, Saturday

TRIAL GOES ON OVER BRITONS IN THE YEMEN

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


The trial of eight Britons on terrorism charges in the Yemen will resume today
after a defence application to halt the case was dismissed.

Defence lawyers claimed it should be thrown out because the defendants had been
tortured into making false confessions.

But just 40 minutes into the trial on Thursday, the judge turned down the
application and adjourned proceedings, giving no reason for his decision.

The adjournment came as the brother of one of the five Birmingham men facing
charges of plotting to bomb Western targets told how he feared for his safety
after being threatened by armed guards who arrested British defence lawyer, Mr
Rashad Yaqoob, two weeks ago.

Mr Rashid Butt flew to Aden five weeks ago to help clear the name of his brother
Shahid Butt (33).

He said he was too afraid to leave his hotel room and was "living on a knife
-edge".

Mr Butt said twice-weekly visiting rights promised by the courts were
disregarded and he had to battle for access to his brother.

Mr Yaqoob, a Birmingham lawyer coordinating the defence from Britain, Thursday's
40-minute hearing in Aden as "yet another" setback for the men.

Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein
(25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), deny associating with armed
groups, plotting murder and destruction and illegal possession of weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist
atrocities in the Yemen. They were charged along with Algerian Ali Mohsen, and
Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), of London, who admitted one charge of forming an
armed group but denied charges of weapons possession.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              182 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 13, 1999

Hutu rebels who killed British tourists picking targets to make a point

BYLINE: DAVID GOUGH IN NAIROBI

SECTION: The Guardian Foreign Page; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 402 words


EVIDENCE is emerging of the scale and organisation of the groups targeting
Britons and Americans in central Africa. Last week's murder of eight tourists in
western Uganda - six of whom were British or American - was a carefully planned
act of terrorism, designed to send a political message.

The rebels separated the Americans and Britons from other nationals and marched
them into the bush. They released Anne Peltier, France's deputy ambassador to
Uganda, despite her being a potentially valuable hostage.

Rwandan Hutus blame Britain and the United States for supporting the minority
Tutsi-led government in Rwanda, and now appear to have developed strategies for
punishing British and American citizens for their governments' policy.

In recent months the Rwandan army has had significant successes against the
Rwandan Liberation Army (Alir), the group that claimed responsibility for the
Uganda killings, and claims it has killed Froduald Mugemanyi and Leonard
Nkundiye, Alir's chief and deputy chief of staff.

A Rwandan government spokesman said the the two leaders' deaths had pushed the
group's political wing, Palir, into a more active policymaking role. The
decision to target Britons and Americans reflected this.

The human rights group African Rights says Alir is well organised and operates
with a clear political agenda. 'The idea that Alir is a disorganised group of
rebels running around the bush should be rapidly dispelled,' said its director,
Rakiya Omaar.

The members of Alir and Palir are Rwandan Hutus who fled Rwanda after the 1994
genocide that left up to 800,000 Tutsis and moderate Hutus dead.

A British diplomat in the Kenyan capital Nairobi confirmed that Britain wants to
speak to the leaders of Alir /Palir in connection with last week's killings.

There is also a question mark over the fate of three tourists, two Swedes and a
man with joint British and New Zealand citizenship, who were abducted in Congo
in August.

British diplomats said they were keen to talk to Casimir Bizimungu, Palir's
leader and a Rwandan government minister at the time of the genocide. Until his
arrest in Nairobi last month he was suspected of leading fund-raising activities
for Alir.

An African Rights publication on the Rwandan genocide accuses Mr Bizimungu of
helping to 'incite the genocide'. He is now in Tanzania awaiting trial on
charges of genocide.


LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              183 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 13, 1999

Maj Donald Henderson

BYLINE: Campbell Thomas

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 641 words


Major Donald Henderson, GM, bomb disposal and

anti-terrorism expert; born December 12, 1921, died January 30, 1999

ONE evening in October 1975, at the height of the IRA's London bombing campaign,
police received a warning that a suspicious package had been wedged between
railings outside Locket's Restaurant in

Marsham Street, Westminster. The 40 diners, some of them MPs, were evacuated and
the area sealed off.

Don Henderson was the Metropolitan Police explosives expert who arrived in an
unarmoured Range Rover to deal with the object. He quickly and correctly
identified it as a timer device containing 20lbs of plastic explosives - enough
to devastate the area just half a mile from the Commons. He disconnected the
timer with minutes to go, rendered the bomb safe, and took it back to his
office. There, he x-rayed it and logged the incident. He was awarded the George
Medal for his bravery.

The operation was one of many which involved him in terrorist activity,
including the Angry Brigade campaign of the late 1960s, the first bombing of
Aldershot Barracks in 1972, and the Old Bailey bomb the following year, which
exploded when he was on his way to the scene.

Henderson was one of Britain's leading authorities on explosive devices when he
was asked, while still a serving Army officer, to set up what was to become the
Metropolitan Police's first bomb disposal unit.

In 1964, the force was facing a wave of safe-blowings using gelignite or nitro
-glycerine. Explosives left at the scene of bungled robberies had to be made
safe and recovered, and he advised officers on scene management and evidence
collection. He retired from the Army and, with his friend and colleague, the
late Major Geoffrey Biddle, became a police explosives officer and established
C7(2) Branch. Their early work paved the way for police anti-terrorist
operations throughout the 1970s. Henderson was part of the close-knit civilian
team who responded to the Provisional IRA's mainland bombing campaign, and the
Arab attacks later that decade. The Explosives Office was visited by delegates
from all over the world, and the procedures Henderson had established were
copied widely.

He lectured at the FBI Academy in Washington, and provided security for the
Organisation of African Unity conference in Morocco. He also became a Freeman of
the City of London.

When one of his team was killed by a bomb, Henderson wrote to a national
newspaper pointing out the unrecognised strain placed on families of explosives
officers. His letter became a page lead.

Donald Victor Henderson was born into a military family of Scottish ancestry in
Gillingham, Kent, and won a scholarship to Dover Grammar School. He showed
promise as a pianist, but transferred from the Territorial Army to the Royal
Engineers as a Sapper at the outbreak of the Second World War.

He served in the Far East during the Burma campaign and in the occupation of
Germany, and was commissioned into the Royal Army Ordnance Corps in 1947. He
qualified for technical ammunition duties and served in Jordan, Korea, Hong
Kong, Malaya, Kenya, and Cyprus.

He retired from the Metropolitan Police in 1981 after the death of his wife of
33 years, Joan. His novel, Bomb Two, was loosely based on his experiences, while
Dragons can be Defeated covered the history of the George Medal. In 1983 he
married Maisie Taylor Russell, a retired Wing Commander in Princess Mary's RAF
Nursing Service, and they moved to Edinburgh, where he had undergone wartime
studies at Heriot Watt College. His second wife died in 1994 and last year, in
poor health, he moved to Lincolnshire to be near his family. Don Henderson was a
loving family man with a sardonic sense of humour, whose expertise and bravery
saved hundreds of lives. He is survived by two sons and two daughters.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              184 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             March 14, 1999, Sunday

TRAVEL: PASSPORT - DAVID YALLOP

BYLINE: Interview By Sarah Barrell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 582 words


Other people collect butterflies or stamps; I collect passports.  As an
investigative writer, having multiple passports is invaluable. I have a number
of them, all acquired completely legally, but there are three that I will admit
to publicly: two UK and an Irish. Since I travel a great deal in the Middle
East, two UK passports are essential. There are certain Arab countries that
simply will not let you in if you have Israeli stamps. Although I always travel
with my two UK passports, there are many countries where a British passport is
not as welcome as one might think, and the Irish passport has acted as a
metaphorical bullet- proof vest on a number of occasions.

Ideally, I'd like to have a passport for every country on the planet.  I don't
think it's realised in this country what resentment we are stacking up for
ourselves in the Middle East by our participation in the bombing of Libya and
Iraq. I was in Damascus in the late Eighties, when there was that huge
earthquake in San Francisco, and I was quite shocked to find that there were
celebrations in the street at the sight of American people suffering. I felt
that I was in a country where, as a British or American person, you could
disappear without a trace - as we saw with Terry Waite and John McCarthy.

For reasons of bravado I'm fond of my 1988 Lebanon stamp: there wasn't really a
more dangerous place to be at that time. I also like my Venezuelan stamp. I
acquired it while researching my current book, Unholy Alliance, about the United
States' financial involvement with the South American drug cartels. Due to my
(successful) efforts to free a close friend from jail, a place known as "Hell's
branch in Caracas", I'm persona non grata in Venezuela.

My friend was the former Venezuelan drugs tsar. When he realised that the
administration he was working for had, as he put it, stopped being part of the
solution and become part of the problem, he went public. The next thing I heard
was that he had been implicated in some terrorist bombings of Caracas. Anyway,
due to the fuss I kicked up I am no longer welcome in Venezuela but the charges
against him were dropped.

My mother is Irish, and I came up with the idea of utilising this, passport-
wise, when I had problems getting an interview with Colonel Gaddafi. At the same
time America and the UK were bombing the hell out of Libya, so the situation was
rather sensitive for a British passport holder. The Irish passport was
acceptable, the interview went ahead and now I have all these exotic Libyan
stamps in my little Irish passport.

Gaddafi is an intelligent and very charming man; quite contrary to the demonised
figure that Britain and America portray to the world. The interviews were held
in a tent just outside Tripoli. I used a government translator and after the
interview, as we left the tent, the translator's robes brushed against the camp
fire and caught alight. Rather than jump up and down in an undignified manner in
front of his leader, the translator simply retreated slowly, smouldering, into
the dark desert night. Gaddafi nudged me as if to say, "Look! The stupid man
hasn't noticed he's on fire," and then disappeared into a clutch of body guards.
The translator appeared seconds later jumping around like a mad man whispering,
"Has the Colonel gone now?" and only when I confirmed this would he let me put
him out.

David Yallop's latest book, 'Unholy Alliance', is published by Bantam Press
(pounds 9.99)

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              185 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 16, 1999

Sheikh is held in anti-terror swoop

BYLINE: David Williams

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 462 words


AN extremist Islamic cleric accused of masterminding a terrorist plot against
British targets in Yemen was arrested in London yesterday.

Sheikh Abu Hamza and two other men were held under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act after dawn raids by detectives investigating links to terror groups abroad.

The 40-year-old, one-eyed former Mujahideen fighter, whose hands were blown off
in Afghanistan - he now has hooks operates from a mosque in Fins-bury Park,
North London.

He was arrested at 6.30am at his four-bedroomed house in Shepherd's Bush, West
London when 30 officers moved in following a 11-week investigation by the
Anti-Terrorist Squad. The two men, aged 36 and 39, held with Hamza are
understood to be connected with his radical organisation the Supporters of
Shariah, which offers military training courses to its followers and preaches
radical Islamic views on the Internet.

At the centre of the Scotland Yard probe are allegations by Yemeni security
officials said to link Hamza to a Christmas bomb plot against British targets in
the southern port city of Aden. His son, stepson and several members of his
organisation are among those currently on trial in Aden accused of plotting
against British targets and a tourist hotel in reprisal for air strikes on Iraq
by Britain and the United States.

One is alleged to have admitted that the Supporters of Shariah sent $1,200 to
pay for weapons and explosives training for five Britons.

The group, allegedly caught with guns, explosives and sophisticated
communications equipment, is said by Yemen to have been despatched to Aden by
Hamza.

The cleric's extradition to stand trial on terror charges is being demanded,
although there is no extradition treaty between Britain and Yemen.

Hamza is also alleged to be closely linked to Abu Hassan, the terror leader in
Yemen accused of the murder of British and Australian citizens after taking them
hostage in a bid to free the men currently on trial.

Three British tourists were among those killed in a bungled rescue attempt by
the Yemeni army.

Hassan is said by security forces in the Yemeni capital Sana'a to have contacted
Hamza by satellite telephone to ask his advice after taking the hostages.

Hamza's 17-year-old son Mustapha Kamel is alleged to have been arrested at one
of Hassan's training camps and is said to have admitted links to the terror
plot.

Lawyers representing the Britons claim confessions were beaten out of them and
that they are innocent.

Egyptian-born Hamza, who was granted British citizenship in 1985, supports the
overthrow of the government in Yemen.

He has admitted that he would be delighted to see British military targets
attacked 'in places where British are oppressing Moslems.'


LOAD-DATE: March 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHEIKH ABU HAMZA: ARRESTED IN DAWN RAID

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              186 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 16, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Senior officer probes killing of Ulster lawyer - Kent police chief called in to
head car bomb investigation

BYLINE: By Peter Williamson

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 405 words


   THE Chief Constable of Kent, David Phillips, is to oversee the investigation
into the murder of Rosemary Nelson in Lurgan, Co Armagh.

The RUC Chief Constable, Sir Ronnie Flanagan, said he was determined the
investigation into the murder of the high-profile solicitor would not only be
the most meticulous it could be, but that it would be "transparently obvious to
all as such.''

In addition, Sir Ronnie disclosed he has been in contact with the Federal Bureau
of Investigation in the USA to discuss any expertise it could offer.

Injuries

In a call to the BBC in Belfast, accompanied by a recognised code word, the
renegade Loyalist Red Hand Defenders claimed responsibility.

The 40-year-old mother-of-three died in hospital yesterday after a booby trap
bomb ripped her BMW apart as she drove away from her home. She lost her legs and
suffered extensive stomach injuries and despite the efforts of medical staff,
died in the Craigavon Area Hospital with her husband Paul at her side.

Her car had been outside her home over the weekend while she was away with her
husband.

The blast occurred 50 yards from the primary school where her daughter, Sarah,
eight, was on her lunch break and where her sister is a teacher.

Her two sons, aged 11 and 13, were on a school skiing trip in France when the
news was broken.

Last year Mrs Nelson expressed concern about security force collusion in the
murder of Belfast human rights solicitor Pat Finucane 10 years ago and said her
life was in danger.

Mrs. Nelson had been acting for the Garvaghy Road Residents Coalition and was
preparing 200 nationalist compensation claims against the RUC over the Drumcree
Parade crisis.

After yesterday's bombing, a crowd of 200 marched from the nationalist Kilwilkee
estate in Lurgan to protest at the murder.

Soldiers

And last night a crowd of about 60 youths cheered as petrol bombs rained down on
soldiers dressed in riot gear.

A short time later a lorry was set alight on the nationalist Garvaghy Road in
Portadown where a crowd of around 200 gathered.

David Trimble and Gerry Adams were under new pressure in Washington today to end
the deadlock over IRA disarmament as Senator George Mitchell warned history will
not forgive leaders who fail to push ahead with the peace deal.

Some senior politicians preparing for talks at the White House believe the
murder was an attempt to wreck the process.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RIOTING OVER DEATH - a youth rides his bicycle past a car set on fire
at the height of protests in Lurgan

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              187 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 16, 1999

Police hold Islam cleric 'in fishing expedition'

BYLINE: RICHARD NORTON-TAYLOR AND IAN BLACK

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 640 words


SHEIKH Abu Hamza, the London-based Islamic cleric and activist whose son is on
trial in the Yemen, was arrested yesterday under the Prevention of Terrorism
Act.

Two other men, including Yaser al-Sirri, an Egyptian asylum-seeker, were also
arrested by 30 unarmed members of Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch in dawn
raids in west London.

Scotland Yard, which declined to confirm the identity of the men, aged 36, 39,
and 40, said the raids were part of a continuing investigation. They were
arrested under section 14 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act which refers to the
'commission, preparation, or instigation of acts of terrorism".

Under the act, people can be questioned for 48 hours and held for a further five
days without being charged. The arrests came on the eve of Parliament's annual
debate renewing the act.

Sheikh Hamza is head of the Supporters of Sharia, which he has described as a
pressure group for oppressed Muslims. Haroon Rasheed, a spokesman for the group
said: 'He is a scholar and he gives his Islamic views. He has only been arrested
for questioning involving terrorist activities here. He has done no terrorist
activities here.'

Akhtar Raja, lawyer for Mr Al-Sirri, last night described the arrests as a
'fishing expedition'.

Britain has been under pressure from Yemen to take action against Sheikh Hamza,
with officials admitting that the Egyptian-born cleric had been under
surveillance before the killings of British tourists and the arrests of Britons
- his son Mustafa one of them - in Aden last December.

The Yemeni authorities have claimed Sheikh Hamza is linked to terrorist
activities in their country. His son is among 10 British and French citizens
being tried on charges of associating with armed groups, plotting murder and
destruction, and possessing weapons. All 10 have been linked to the Islamic Army
of Abyan, who kidnapped 16 Westerners in December, four of whom died in a
shoot-out with Yemeni security forces Two weeks ago Hamza issued a statement in
the name of the Islamic Army of Aden-Abyan, threatening the British and American
ambassadors to Yemen.

Foreign Office sources have indicated that though extradition of Sheikh Abu
Hamza - as demanded by the Sana'a government - is unlikely, prosecution was
possible under controversial legislation passed last summer making it a criminal
offence in Britain to conspire to commit terrorist acts abroad.

Whitehall sources say that the Supporters of Shariah is likely to be targeted to
see if it throws up any information about worldwide Islamic fundamentalist
groups, some of which are suspected to be loosely linked to the Afghan-based
Saudi terrorist, Osama bin Ladin.

Egypt has been seeking Mr al-Sirri, though he denies Cairo's claim that he is a
member of the banned Jihad group and that he was involved in the attempted
assassination of an Egyptian prime minister. But British sources say Cairo has
never produced evidence that would be admissable in a British court.

Mr al-Sirri runs the London-based Islamic Observer Centre, which he calls a
'registered charity defending human rights', and claims his movements are
monitored by the security services.

Jack Straw, meanwhile, is in contact with the Egyptian authorities about the
possibility of deporting Hany Yousseff, a prominent Egyptian defence lawyer who
has been refused asylum here.

Khaled al-Fawwaz, a Saudi, is being held in Britain pending a hearing into a US
request for his extradition allegedly in connection with the bombings of the US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania last August.

Britain had been under pressure from Egypt, Algeria, Bahrain, Tunisia, Saudi
Arabia, Israel and France to move against exiled Muslim extremists well before
last August's attacks. But the new legislation was seen as a sop to Washington.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              188 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 16, 1999

Threat to 'out' gay MP angers France

BYLINE: JON HENLEY IN PARIS

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 587 words


IN BRITAIN and the United States it has become an all too familiar fate for
politicians and public figures who would rather have kept their homosexuality a
secret. But in largely tolerant France, the first case of 'outing' is causing a
public outcry before it has even happened.

'An odious act', 'gay terrorism' and 'ignoble blackmail' were among the
headlines that greeted a threat yesterday by the Paris branch of Act Up to
reveal the identity of a gay MP it accused of condoning homophobia. Human rights
campaigners, politicians and other gay rights groups were no less outraged.

'In the name of liberty, I ask these Act Up militants to renounce their plans,'
said Bertrand Delanoe, one of only two openly gay MPs, who revealed his
homosexuality on television last year. 'I utterly reject the idea of a single
group of activists being able to decide for an individual whether or not his or
her homosexuality should be disclosed.'

Act Up, whose campaigns have helped to change French attitudes towards Aids
sufferers, threatened to identify the MP after he took part in a protest against
a government bill proposing legal recognition for non-married couples, including
gay couples.

But Mouloud Aounit, general secretary of France's leading anti-racism group
MRAP, said Act Up's attitude represented 'a serious violation of human liberty'.
He added: 'It is important that homophobia be recognised as a form of racism,
but the fight should be with democratic weapons. This is fascism.'

France has long tolerated homosexuality, decriminalising gay sex between
consenting adults long before Britain. The president of the French League of
Human Rights, Henri Leclerc, described Act Up's plan as 'an unjustifiable and
violent act of terror'.

But while newspapers took pains to explain what Le Figaro called 'the uniquely
Anglo-Saxon process of 'outing', a despicable procedure that has brought low
businessmen in America and government ministers in England', they are likely to
find themselves in difficulty if they report the 'outing'.

Article nine of the civil code enshrines the right of every citizen to a private
life, and French courts have awarded millions of francs in damages to
celebrities and politicians who believe theirs has been intruded upon.

Draconian privacy laws ensured that the late President Francois Mitterrand was
able to conceal the existence of his illegitimate daughter Mazarine until the
day of his funeral, and allowed Sarah Ferguson to win huge damages from
magazines that dared to publish compromising photographs of her with her
financial adviser.

If Act Up carries out its threat, it faces a fine of up to pounds 30,000. Any
French media that report the outing could face a heavier punishment.

Philippe Mangeot, Act Up's president, said he recognised the legal
consequences.'We have no way of fighting cleanly. This MP allied himself with
our enemies, his enemies, without expressing his regret at the anti-gay slogans
the protesters were shouting. There are dozens of gays in parliament, and none
have spoken out,' he said.

Mr Mangeot said his aim was to have laws against incitement to racial hatred
extended to cover homophobia. 'We will only 'out' someone we know is gay when he
supports or condones homophobia. But at least the debate has been opened.'

Other gay rights groups were less enthusiastic: 'This is hostage-taking,'
Philippe Ceresa of the Gay Parents Association said. 'This is one Anglo-Saxon
import we do not want in France.'


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              189 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 18, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

Violence mars funeral of car bomb lawyer - Police injured as petrol bombs thrown
by rioters

BYLINE: by Deric Graham

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 357 words


   Mourners gathered today for the funeral of murdered human rights lawyer
Rosemary Nelson hours after violence erupted on Ulster's streets.

The mother-of-three, who represented many high-profile nationalists, died after
dissident loyalists blew up her car near her home in Lurgan on Monday.

Her husband Paul, her children Christopher, 13, Gavin, 11, and eight-year-old
Sarah, were leading mourners, including Irish president Mary McAleese and
Northern Ireland Office political development minister Paul Murphy, from their
home to Lurgan's St Peter's church.

After a requiem mass Mrs Nelson's remains were being taken to Roselawn
crematorium in Belfast.

But the eve of the funeral was marred by violent scenes in Portadown between
nationalists and loyalists with one person in hospital today and at least six
slightly hurt as well as 38 RUC officers injured, mostly to arms, legs and body
areas.

"One officer has been detained in hospital with neck and head injuries," said a
spokesman.

Missiles

The RUC said officers were called to the area after receiving reports of stoning
between rival factions last night.

The officers came under attack, with rioters throwing petrol bombs and other
missiles. A number of baton rounds were fired by the RUC and a car was set
alight on the Garvaghy Road. The violence came hours after a leading loyalist
was shot dead in Belfast's Shankill area, fuelling fears of a retaliation for
the Nelson murder.

But police and loyalist sources said Red Hand Commando Frankie Curry, who had
served a string of sentences for terrorist offences and had just got out of jail
on Monday, appeared to be the victim of a loyalist feud.

Northern Ireland First Minister David Trimble and Gerry Adams are expected to
meet again in Belfast on Monday after talks at the White House today failed to
break the deadlock on IRA disarmament which threatens the peace process.

At one stage President Clinton arranged a room so that the Ulster Unionist Party
leader and the Sinn Fein president could consider a number of options privately.

But the half-hour session ended without any progress.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR RETURNS- a car burns in the Garvaghy Road in Portadown last
night when rioters threw petrol bombs

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              190 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 19, 1999, Friday Edition 6

Blair in bid to revive peace process - Intensive talks plan as violence
threatens hopes for Ulster's future

BYLINE: By Chris Parkin

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 369 words


   Tony Blair is ready to take part in an intensive talks to a get breakthrough
in the Ulster peace process - after he, Bill Clinton and Irish Premier Bertie
Ahern issued a joint plea for progress.

There would be an intensive round of talks next week to try to break the impasse
over the decommissioning of terrorist weapons, said a Downing Street spokesman.

"The Prime Minister stands ready to do whatever is necessary and considered to
be helpful," he said.

The talks come after Mr Blair, US President Mr Clinton and Mr Ahern jointly
called for the parties to have the courage needed to "finish the task" between
now and Good Friday.

They said: "A year ago, people said it was hopeless, that the sides were too far
apart. But the people and political parties in Northern Ireland proved them
wrong. We all persevered. People compromised. People showed courage.

"One year on, we can meet the deadline that has been set. More courage will be
needed. But we are nearly there. The prize is very great indeed and it is now in
sight. We have come too far to go back now. Let us finish the task between now
and Good Friday."

But shadow Northern Ireland secretary Andrew Mackay said the three leaders
should have taken a stronger line on decommissioning.

"The reason now we have got an impasse and we have a dangerous situation where
the executive might not be set up is fairly and squarely the fault of Sinn
Fein-IRA, in particular because they have not decommissioned any weapons," he
said.

Ulster political development minister Paul Murphy said it was up to the parties
to resolve the issues. "I understand that David Trimble has his own
difficulties, as has Gerry Adams. I am convinced that both of them are
completely serious in wanting this thing to work," he said.

Meanwhile, there were clashes between nationalists and police in the Corcrain
area of Portadown in the wake of the funeral of leading lawyer Rosemary Nelson,
who was murdered by dissident loyalists in a car bomb attack.

Police fired plastic bullets as nationalists tried to attack the Orange Hall
with petrol bombs.

SDLP Upper Bann assembly member Brid Rodgers condemned the disturbances on the
Garvaghy Road area.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR ON THE STREETS - a Republican petrol bomber prepares to attack
in Portadown's Garvaghy Road during last night's violent riots

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              191 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 22, 1999

Lonely path that leads home

BYLINE: Anne Simpson

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1634 words


ON the day that a Lurgan car bomb ripped Rosemary Nelson to pieces, Gary
Mitchell was absorbed in the final rehearsal for the play he hopes might expand
our perception of loyalists and their raw, unyielding creed. That night Trust
previewed at the Royal Court Upstairs in London, its gripping insight into lives
of hard, ugly vigour terribly intensified by that day's appalling events. Hours
earlier the Red Hand Defenders had claimed "responsibility" for the murder of
the Catholic human rights lawyer, as if atrocity had now made them "responsible"
individuals. But, as Mitchell knows, words, too, get hijacked by either side in
Northern Ireland, loyalists or republicans contorting them to suit their own
particular poisons. So trust there becomes not an act of faith but a pledge of
mindless allegiance born of terror. Within a community, Mitchell shows it to be
the code word for vigilante muscle. Within the home he lets it hang in the air
like a curse, the very opposite of itself, maiming everything and achieving
nothing but betrayal.

In the past five years some of the best new theatre in Britain has come from
across the water. But while Conor McPherson, Martin McDonagh, Sebastian Barry,
and Mark O'Rowe spring from a Catholic background, Mitchell is that rare
creature, a playwright from a Protestant working-class redoubt. Now, with this
latest work, he has strengthened that distinction and his sheer courage in
following that lonely career path can't be underestimated: Mitchell still lives
in Rathcoole, the vast, brutalised scheme in north Belfast which, in the
fifties, was "mixed" in every sense.

"Rich and poor, Protestant and Catholic, we had them all in a population of
around 20,000," he says. "Now there are no rich people, and hardly any
Catholics, and that's all because of The Troubles. Nothing else." Mitchell sets
Trust in a lingering UDA stronghold of Rathcoole, where internal feuding is the
only reason to converse. He doesn't seek to justify his community's virulent
commitment to intransigence but to examine how, even inside its own home, that
reflex contaminates, punishes, and ultimately destroys those it most wants to
protect. Yet if Mitchell is taking his own people to task, he is also
challenging the No Surrender mentality of every power bloc in Northern Ireland.
But, despite his best intentions, is he also reinforcing the stereotype rather
than dissolving it.

On his way back to Rathcoole Mitchell - catching up with Trust's enthusiastic
reviews - contemplates that dilemma solemnly. There is a steady-eyed directness
about his face even in repose, but the tight, unadorned tempo of his speech
still finds room for the ironic. "I never said that I was here to re-write
stereotypes,"

he replies. "My problem is that the nationalist/republican Catholic cause has
been overly romanticised, and every time you see a Protestant on stage, he's
just the worst thing in the world, either very evil or very boring." There are
elements of evil in everybody, says Mitchell. "But there are also elements of
good, and in writing honestly I try to strike a balance." We talk about the
valour of David Ervine, leader of the Progressive Unionists - founded as the
political wing of the loyalist paramilitary UVF - who last year, at a public
meeting in Belfast, urged Protestants to confront the fact that they hadn't made
the most of their own culture.

Ervine was jeered for suggesting that loyalists should stop blaming nationalists
for the wide appeal of Irish dancing, the Bodhran, and all the rest. "What have
we got," he challenged. "The Orange marches, that's all." Mitchell reflects that
Ervine was spot-on. "The first thing we have to do as a community is hold up our
hands and say: 'Okay, we're pretty much to blame because we haven't attempted to
put our side across in any good or entertaining way.' I wouldn't be a great fan
of Riverdance, or anything like that, but many people are, and the Irish do
market their culture exceptionally well."

Even in London, Mitchell observes that "a great Irish spirit" prevails, but his
community, dedicated so ferociously to the British Crown, "just doesn't seem to
be here at all."

This loyalist sense of dislocation, once outside the bunker, is among the most
bleakly tragic aspects of Northern Ireland's long war. And one imagines that,
given the warping force of grievance, no-one in Rathcoole will thank Mitchell
for parading before the world its hard reliance on the rule of violence. Not so,
he says, although he adds sardonically: "Maybe writing plays is not something
Rathcoole residents aspire to, but when my first play - In A Little World Of Our
Own - was put on in Belfast, about 90 folk from the estate came. They'd never
been in a theatre before and they thought the whole thing brilliant." Why, then,
so few contemporary Protestant writers compared to the numbers from other side?
"It's like I said: there's no dignity perceived by my community in doing this.
My people think the theatre is a small thing, and writing plays an insignificant
pursuit. Not long ago, for instance, I was coming out of a petrol station in
Rathcoole, and a woman stopped me and said: 'Hello Gary. I hear you won a wee
award for your wee play . . .' That sums up what my community think about it,
and I like that kind of attitude."

So Mitchell remains in Rathcoole, staying in the parental home he's always
known, and the neighbourhood is, after all, the wellspring of his writing. Like
most of his friends, he left school at 15 and then, after eight years on the
dole, he joined the lowliest rung of the Civil Service. "That was far more
demeaning than no work at all, and I hated it . But it did inspire me to do
something with my life that was legal and good." Did he withstand the pressures
to enrol with paramilitaries? "Yes, because I joined a local drama group, but
what people forget is that when I was young the UDA and the UVF were legal. It
was like joining the Scouts. There was a sort of pride about it. You were almost
a policeman, almost a soldier supporting your community. Then everything
deteriorated into an area of total unemployment and practically unemployable
people."

His creative escape route was through writing for radio. Unburdened by
qualifications, Mitchell still managed to be a winner at various Young
Playwright festivals, each of his pieces highlighting the people he feels are
continually misrepresented and therefore misunderstood. Today, with commissions
rolling in, he can live by writing alone, but is he in danger of becoming a
one-theme dramatist? The question scarcely worries him. "Actually I'm working on
a play for the National here, called Marching On, and I suppose you can guess
what that's about. My community, in fact, is multifaceted but that's rarely been
put across. It's also very humorous, although in Trust we had to cut back on
that because people were laughing too much, and the play was turning into a
rip-roaring comedy."

Certainly Mitchell himself is more amused than downcast by the fact that much of
his reputation has been made in Dublin where the Abbey Theatre's production of
In A Little World Of Our Own won Best New Play in the 1997 Irish Times Theatre
Awards. And while no nationalists are portrayed in Trust, all the key characters
are played by Catholics. Is that progress, or happenstance? Mitchell laughs at
the piquancy.

"Having worked in the republic now I have to recognise that there is a great
maturity there today. Dublin is showing tremendous willingness to approach and
understand, and much of that has to do with self-confidence. To listen to the
other side - to find out what their problem is - that's a great thing to do, you
know."

Like Ervine, Mitchell also believes that over generations the Province's
established politicians have served the loyalist working class disastrously.
"Those who have represented us have actually turned other people's interest
away, stopped them thinking about us. So, we react defensively to everything.
It's like in football: everybody loves to see a team attack, attack, attack to
try to achieve something."

In cultural terms, he says, that's become the adventurous strategy of
nationalists. "It's very attractive, very exciting, and along the way they
create wonderful things. But we don't do anything like that because we're
negative all the time. No surrender . . . as a result there's a deeply worrying
sense of rejection."

So trust and mistrust have formed a crippled hybrid of futility. Yet, when
Mitchell heard the news of Rosemary Nelson's death last Monday, what was his
reaction? "Shock. And then a realisation of the difference between news values
in Northern Ireland and on the mainland. Here, The Troubles disappear off the
news for weeks and suddenly they come back with a major incident. Back home
people are killed on a regular basis, and the punishment beatings are every day,
but over here you don't learn about that because there's not an important person
involved."

Yet the hatred that propels the bully and horrific acts is precisely what
Mitchell's work explores. "I'm writing about the kind of mindset that creates
people like that. There's no point saying to those loyalists: 'You've done a
terrible thing, you're terrible people.' We know that doesn't work. But drama
can be hugely powerful, although my primary objective is really to entertain
people, and I think the work benefits from that. If people are entertained
they'll think more about what you're saying." And that, of course, might be Gary
Mitchell's greatest personal act of trust and service. A stoic's belief that, in
the end, truth finds fiction, in all its guises, a more effective messenger than
fact.

n Trust runs at the Royal Court Upstairs until April 3.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              192 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 23, 1999

Comment: Injustice in the air;
The case against these two is riddled with inconsistencies

BYLINE: PAUL FOOT

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 781 words


THE dreaded letters 'PII' have been rattled off by the Government in an attempt
to suppress information about an alleged injustice potentially far worse than
the Matrix Churchill case which plagued the Tories. The Court of Appeal heard
last week that Home Secretary Jack Straw had signed a PII ('public interest
immunity') certificate preventing Jawad Botmeh and Samar Alami from getting
information which could lead to their release from prison. The certificate will
be bitterly contested at a public hearing on March 29.

In November 1997, the former MI5 officer David Shayler gave an interview to the
Mail on Sunday. He claimed that in 1994 the British security services got a
warning of an impending terrorist attack on the Israeli embassy in London. The
warning, said Shayler, 'was specific information from a highly reputable source.
MI5 did nothing'. He repeated this story to me in Paris last summer, and told me
as well that, after the bombing, he had seen a note written by an MI6 officer
alleging that the Israeli intelligence agency Mossad had bombed the embassy to
shock the British authorities into lifting restrictions on Mossad's freedom of
movement in Britain.

The embassy and some offices of the Zionist Federation were bombed in 1994. In
1996, two young Palestinians, Samar Alami and Jawad Botmeh, were convicted of
conspiracy to carry out the bombing and sentenced to 20 years each. The case
against them was riddled with inconsistencies. Another defendant, crucial to the
prosecution story, was released before her case was heard. Another was
acquitted. Neither of the two convicted had actually bombed the embassy - both
had cast-iron alibis.

The prosecution case - that the two defendants had played a central role in the
bombing conspiracy - was always weak. It could not possibly have been sustained
if there had been evidence of an advance warning to British intelligence about
the bombing. Such evidence would have suggested an attack by professional
terrorists working for a government, and would have backed the powerful claims
of both defendants that they had been unwittingly used by a man who was linked
to the real bombers. Shayler's statement therefore was crucial. Had the
Government any information to back it up? In November 1997, Gareth Peirce, the
prisoners' solicitor, wrote to the Crown Prosecution Service asking for any
information relevant to Shayler's allegation. The Home Office and the Crown
Prosecution Service reacted with the alacrity for which both are renowned
whenever a major injustice is in the air. They did nothing for more than a year.
The PII certificate signed by Jack Straw was disclosed last week, 16 months
after the matter was first raised. The certificate which protects the Home
Office from releasing information does not allege that the information is
irrelevant. The only grounds for non-disclosure are those of 'security'.

The Matrix Churchill businessmen's company was, as charged, selling
sophisticated defence equipment to Saddam Hussein's Iraq. When they asked for
information about government complicity, PIIs (gagging orders) were slapped on
all relevant information by Tory ministers. After a tremendous hullabaloo, some
of these PIIs were set aside 'in the interests of justice' and the three men
were acquitted.

The case of Samar Alami and Jawad Botmeh is a much more serious potential
injustice than the Matrix Chirchil affair. Straw's instinctive reaction - to
reach for his gagging orders - is as preposterous as anything the Tories did
over Matrix Churchill. If there is any information at all to back up Shayler's
allegations, it should be disclosed. If the men have been wrongly imprisoned,
there cannot be any 'public interest' greater than the disclosure of evidence
which could free them.

INTRIGUED by the rapid growth of 'special advisers' to ministers (there are 69
of them, and they cost us A2.6 million in the last financial year, up from A1.6
million the previous - Tory - year), I spent a lot of last week trying to find
out from the Cabinet Office how many special advisers had left government
service in Labour's first two years. Under Old Labour governments, special
advisers were usually brought in to counter reactionary influences in the civil
service and were inclined to hang around. These days, a stint as 'special
adviser' to a New Labour minister is regarded as a stepping stone to high
salaries in lobbyist firms. So traffic between ministries and lobbyists is
intense. Still, I was surprised by the answer I eventually got. Since May 1997,
no less than 23 'special advisers' have left their ministries, almost all of
them for more luscious pastures.


LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              193 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 March 23, 1999

Chancer trapped by patience;Arrest was at Glasgow safe house

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 850 words


THE Home Office has obtained an interim order blocking the release of Thomas
Quigley, Paul Kavanagh and Gerard McDon-nell, who were due out today, and of
Patrick Magee, known as The Chancer, who carried out the 1984 Brighton bombing
and was set to be released later this year.

Magee, who plotted to annihilate Margaret Thatcher and her Cabinet, was arrested
in Glasgow.

He was spotted by officers tracking another IRA suspect and, in June 1985,
arrested at an IRA safe house in Langside Road in the South Side.

The undercover work of RUC Special Branch Assistant Chief Constable Brian
Fitzsimons, who died in the Chinook tragedy at the Mull of Kintyre in 1994,
helped capture Magee.

If he were to serve the minimum 35-year sentence recommended by the judge at his
trial, Magee would be 70 before he tasted freedom.

As a consequence of the early prisoner release scheme, he can look forward to
reclaiming his freedom much sooner than that - though yesterday's move by Home
Secretary Jack Straw to seek a review of the Sentencing Review Commission's
calculation of his tariff puts a question mark over exactly when.

Magee was 35 when, in September 1986, he was given eight life sentences at the
Old Bailey, seven of them for offences relating to the bombing of Brighton's
Grand Hotel early on October 12, 1984, during the Tory Party conference.

He was sentenced for planting the bomb, exploding it, and five counts of murder
- which attracted the minimum 35-year recommendation.

The eighth life sentence was for a separate conspiracy, to bomb 16 targets in
London and at resorts around Britain. Four members of an IRA "active service
unit'' who worked with him on that project were also jailed.

Trial judge Mr Justice Boreham called Magee "a man of exceptional cruelty and
inhumanity" who enjoyed terrorist activities.

Ironically the judge went on to voice satisfaction at passing such sentences. "I
must be grateful that in recent years legislators have raised the maximum
sentence from a mere 20 years to life imprisonment for explosive offences," he
said.

Two years earlier, Magee had checked into the Grand Hotel under the fictitious
name Roy Walsh, staying there from September 14 to 17.

The bomber, who allegedly honed his skills at Libyan terrorist training camps,
kept a low profile, preferring room service to the restaurant.

But his discretion hid a deadly purpose. In his room - number 629 - he primed a
20-30lb bomb, and hid it in a bathroom wall with a timing device set 24 days
ahead.

Three-and-a-half weeks later, at 2.54am on October 12, the bomb blasted a gaping
hole in the hotel's facade.

Though Mrs Thatcher - who was in the hotel working on her conference speech at
the time of the blast - and her Cabinet escaped alive, Magee's bomb did kill
five, and injured 34 others.

The dead were Sir Anthony Berry, 59, the MP for Enfield Southgate; Roberta
Wakeham, 45-year-old wife of the then Tory Chief Whip Lord Wakeham; the Tories'
north-west area chairman Eric Taylor, 54; Muriel Maclean, 54, wife of Scottish
chairman Sir Donald Maclean; and Jeanne Shattock, 52, wife of the western area
chairman.

The Home Secretary also obtained an interim order blocking the release of Thomas
Quigley, Paul Kavanagh, and Gerard McDonnell, who were due out today.

Kavanagh and Quigley carried out a month-long London campaign in 1981, including
the Chelsea Barracks bomb, which killed two passers-by and injured many Irish
Guards, a booby-trapped bomb in an Oxford Street Wimpy bar that killed a bomb
disposal expert, and the bombing of the Wimbledon home of Sir Michael Havers,
then Attorney-General.

They were convicted at the Old Bailey in 1985 of three murders during 1981 and
given five life sentences each.

Gerard McDonnell was the bomb making specialist and Magee's accomplice in the
bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton in 1984.

He was given a life sentence in July 1986 for plotting to bomb British seaside
resorts.

Sussex Police set about the mammoth task of tracing guests who stayed at the
hotel in the preceding month. Some 800 people from 50 countries were traced and
eliminated. Only Roy Walsh could not be accounted for.

The mystery guest's true identity was revealed thanks to a palm print on a hotel
registration card, eventually matched with a print taken from Magee when he was
first arrested as a juvenile in Norwich, where he grew up, years before.

Eschewing a public alert detectives played a waiting game, hoping the bomber
would eventually reappear on the mainland.

It paid off, and in June 1985 he was arrested in Glasgow as he planned attacks
on seaside resorts.

Magee was known as The Chancer because of his willingness to take risks, but one
previous gamble had not come off, when he lost the little finger on his right
hand as a bomb exploded prematurely.

In September 1994, then Prime Minister John Major ordered an inquiry when four
republican prisoners, including Magee, were transferred from English jails to
prisons in Ulster only hours after the first IRA ceasefire.

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: On the mend: Ian Price, who was subjected to a beating at the weekend
for which loyalist paramilitaries have been blamed, is comforted in hospital by
his mother Grace yesterday. Mo Mowlam hit out against the attack calling it
barbaric and said such actions served only to frustrate efforts to reach a
political agreement. Ian, 13, from Newtownards, County Down, suffered a
shattered elbow, broken fingers, deep punctures to the legs, cuts and bruises
Picture: CRISPIN RODWELL;From left: convicted IRA bombers Paul Kavanagh, Thomas
Quigley, and Gerard McDonnell

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              194 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 23, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Straw blocks release of IRA bombers - Sinn Fein react angrily over 'unacceptable
interference'

BYLINE: By Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 619 words


   Home Secretary Jack Straw last night intervened to halt the release of four
IRA men - including Brighton bomber Patrick Magee - under the early release
scheme for terrorist prisoners.

The Home Office insisted the intervention, on a point of law, was nothing to do
with the peace process but Sinn Fein angrily accused Mr Straw of "unacceptable
interference" with the Good Friday agreement.

Three of the prisoners - Thomas Quigley, Paul Kavanagh and Gerard McDonnell -
had been due out this morning after successfully appealing to the independent
Sentences Review Commission against their original release dates.

In a ruling yesterday, the commission, which sets the release dates for
paramilitary prisoners under the early release scheme, also agreed, on appeal,
that Magee should be set free on June 22.

However, Mr Straw last night obtained an interim order setting aside the
commission's rulings and will today seek judicial review of the decision at the
High Court in Belfast.

The four - who were all involved in the IRA's mainland bombing campaign in the
1980s - are the first life prisoners convicted by the English courts to come up
for release under the scheme. All were transferred to the Maze Prison after
starting their sentences in jails on the mainland.

With a number of similar cases in the pipeline, the Home Office said Mr Straw
had acted to "clarify" how the law on early releases related to such prisoners.

"The Government is committed to meeting our obligations under the Good Friday
agreement," a Home Office spokesman said. "The Government thinks it is important
to clarify the application of the law as it applies to prisoners transferred
from England and Wales to Northern Ireland."

However Sinn Fein prisons spokesman Gerry Kelly angrily accused Mr Straw of
interfering with the peace process and demanded the immediate reinstatement of
their release dates.

"This is unacceptable behaviour by the Home Secretary. Once again he is
interfering in the Good Friday agreement. The Good Friday agreement is supposed
to be the framework for ending the conflict. What do the Home Secretary's
actions mean for that objective?"

For the Tories, Mr Straw's intervention was welcomed by shadow Northern Ireland
secretary Andrew Mackay.

"We believe it is right that Magee and others convicted of terrorism on the
mainland should not be included in the Government's early release scheme. The
simple truth is that until there is decommissioning of illegally-held weapons,
there should be a halt to all terrorist prisoner releases."

More than 250 republican and loyalist prisoners have been freed under the
scheme.

Comment: Page 10

Question mark over release date

Patrick Magee plotted to annihilate former Conservative Prime Minister Margaret
Thatcher and her Cabinet - and nearly succeeded.

If he were to serve the minimum 35-year sentence recommended by the judge at his
September 1986 trial, Magee would be 70 before being freed.

As a consequence of the early prisoner release scheme, he can look forward to
reclaiming his freedom much sooner than that - although yesterday's move by Home
Secretary Jack Straw puts a question mark over exactly when.

Magee was given eight life sentences at the Old Bailey, seven of them for
offences relating to the bombing of Brighton's Grand Hotel early on October 12,
1984, during that year's Tory party conference. He was sentenced for planting
the bomb, exploding it, and five counts of murder.

The eighth life sentence was for a separate conspiracy, to bomb 16 targets in
London and at resorts around Britain.

Defiant to the end, Magee gave a clenched-fist salute as he was led off to start
his sentence.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eight life sentences: Brighton bomber Patrick Magee.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              195 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 March 23, 1999

Phone tapping is a small price to pay for our security;
 ANALYSIS

BYLINE: CHAPMAN PINCHER; INTELLIGENCE EXPERT

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 1102 words


A RECORD number of people living in Britain, or visiting here, had their
telephones tapped or their letters surreptitiously opened last year on behalf of
MI5 and other security authorities.

As the Cold War with Russia and its satellites has been over for nearly a
decade, this has surprised MPs, while those in the civil liberties industry, who
are usually young and starry-eyed, are deeply concerned.

In view of the many threats besetting this country and its people, the total -
1,763 according to figures released to Parliament - is surprisingly small in a
population of 56 millions plus millions of foreign visitors.

It refers to the number of warrants signed by a Secretary of State, usually the
Home Secretary, to permit the postal and telecommunications authorities to snoop
on the private correspondence and conversations of people suspected of being
dangerous. But why should it have grown by three per cent over the previous
year, as it has?

Active espionage against Britain has not ceased with the demise of the Soviet
Union. The KGB may have changed its name but remains busy worldwide, especially
in the industrial field, while the Ukraine, and other states that separated from
Russia as quickly as they could, now have their own intelligence services which
must be countered.

The stark reality of the new threat from Moslem fundamentalism was openly
expressed by a terrorist suspect in the current trial in Yemen, when he claimed
that any opportunity to kill Christian Britons and Americans must be grasped.
The millionaire Moslem fanatic, Osama bin Laden, suspected of financing the
bombing of the American Embassy in Nairobi, takes a similar view.

There is also the danger of revenge by Saddam Hussein for the British and
American bombing of Iraq. He has publicly threatened to respond with chemical
and bacterial weapons smuggled into Britain and America by terrorists, prepared
to commit suicide, if necessary, while completing their tasks.

I strongly suspect that the sustained bombing of targets in Iraq - including the
recent cruise missile assault on Baghdad itself is the result of alarming
intelligence about this terrorist threat, which the Government has not revealed.

The threat of terrorist bombing on mainland Britain from IRA splinter- groups,
and even from the IRA itself, still remains and must be continuously monitored.
On top of all that, MI5 is now involved in countering the drugs menace.

So the real question is how can all this be achieved by only 1,763 security
intrusions into privacy? The answer is that it cannot and that the real number
of intrusions is far greater. The signing of official warrants permitting
telephone and letter surveillance is, to a large extent, democratic window
-dressing to satisfy public concern because no British government wants to be
accused of appearing to run a police state.

For most of this century, the Government has been legally empowered to examine
all private messages sent abroad by cable companies without need for warrants.

Copies of all cables are collected daily, any of intelligence interest being
forwarded to GCHQ, the surveillance centre based at Cheltenham. There was
national uproar when I revealed this practice in 1967 but no public demand to
stop it and it still goes on.

It is telephone tapping, however, that bugs people - emotionally as well as
literally. As my home telephone has been tapped for security reasons many times,
I can explain what happens.

With a warrant to act on behalf of MI5, or some other defence department,
security experts of the telecommunications company put the target telephone out
of order and when the subscriber reports it, a special team arrives to 'fix' it.
While pretending to repair the line, they install a combined bug and tap, a tiny
device which not only enables all future calls to be recorded on tape by the
snoopers but also transmits ordinary conversations in the room where the phone
is located, even when it is hung up.

Many people wrongly suspect that their phone is being tapped because they hear
clicks and other noises. I know that my phones were repeatedly tapped because
senior civil servants and security officers, who were my friends, warned me to
be careful.

Immediately after I left Britain for Tasmania, in 1980, to be briefed by Peter
Wright, the renegade MI5 officer (later the self-styled Spycatcher), a British
Telecom team gained access to my village home by telling the housekeeper that
something was seriously wrong with my telephone.

They spent an hour crawling about under the roof and when I reported this to
Wright, on my return, he advised me to waste no time looking for the bugs
because the technicians were so clever that I would never find them. I assume
that they are still there. It was my sources which MI5 were after, rather than
me, and I have never objected to being tapped because MI5 was doing its proper
job.

The intelligence services often need to bug the telephones and rooms of visitors
staying in London hotels and the hotel owners usually oblige, as happened with
certain Soviet heads of state. Restaurant tables which are regularly patronised
by foreign diplomats may be permanently bugged, as happened for more than ten
years at the former Ecu de France in London's Jermyn Street, where I was a
regular customer until it closed down. In a fit of conscience, one of the
directors told me the astonishing story.

As Peter Wright revealed, MI5 can also do its own tapping into secret messages
being transmitted by foreign embassies.

In today's technical age, all this is old hat because telephone conversations,
faxes and e-mail involving radio and satellites can now be bugged with ease and
on a large scale without any requirement for warrants. This is the prime
function of GCHQ, which has listening stations in many parts of the world.


Even undersea telephone cables are regularly bugged by submarines using
retrievable pods which can be clamped on, to tape-record all messages passing
through them. The Internet, a new medium for sending secret messages, has also
become a prime target for GCHQ, using mind-boggling equipment.

The release of the Stasi files, the records of the former East German security
service, has revealed that all citizens there were subject to surveillance of
every kind by more than 100,000 official snoopers assisted by two million paid
informers. That plight would have been imposed on us had Communism triumphed.

The relatively modest degree of intrusion practised by Britain's small
intelligence services contributed to its defeat.


LOAD-DATE: March 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              196 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      March 24, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

Terrorists freed by court ruling - Straw's bid to keep IRA men locked up gets
thrown out

BYLINE: By rosie cowan

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 270 words


   Three IRA prisoners were enjoying their first day of freedom today after Home
Secretary Jack Straw's attempt to block their release backfired.

Thomas Quigley and Paul Kavanagh, both 43, and Gerard McDonnell, 47, walked free
from Northern Ireland's Maze last night after a ruling by the Northern Ireland
High Court.

It rejected Mr Straw's bid to reverse a decision by the Northern Ireland
Sentence Review Commission to free the three under the terms of the Good Friday
Peace Accord. A fourth IRA man involved in the Home Secretary's unsuccessful
action, Brighton bomber Patrick Magee, has been told he will leave jail on June
22.

The trio ran through the gates of the Maze soon after 9.30pm - a little more
than an hour after news of the courtroom verdict was relayed to the jail in
County Down.

In the High Court Mr Justice Girvan said the wisdom or fairness of the 1998
Northern Ireland Sentencing Act, which set up the early release scheme, was not
a matter for the court.

Meanwhile, pressure mounted today for the RUC to be barred from the inquiry into
the murder of solicitor Rosemary Nelson, after a report into the force's
investigation of alleged death threats against her.

The Independent Commission for Police Complaints found that RUC officers were
"hostile, evasive and disinterested" in connection with the inquiry.

Mrs Nelson's husband, Paul, is so shocked by the seven-page ICPC document that
he does not want the local force involved in any way in hunting her killers. She
died in a car bomb attack, carried out by dissident loyalists in her home town,
Lurgan, last week.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT AT LAST - friends and relatives greet freed IRA men, left to right,
Paul Kavanagh, Gerard McDonnell and Thomas Quigley after they were released from
the Maze prison when a judge rejected a bid to keep them inside

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              197 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 March 25, 1999

The sub that wielded Tomahawks;
EUROPE AT WAR

BYLINE: James Clark

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 600 words


THE British attack submarine Splendid last night played a crucial role in the
first wave of bombardments of the Serbs.

It launched its deadly American-built Tomahawk missiles at undisclosed targets
in a three-pronged attack with B52s from RAF Fair-ford in Gloucestershire and B2
Stealth bombers flying from the United States.

Splendid was fitted with the Tomahawk system last year - making the UK the only
other nation to possess the weapon.

Defence Ministry sources said the 4,900-ton, 272ft nuclear-powered submarine had
launched a 'number' of Tomahawks, but would not give further details.

Splendid is believed to be carrying about 12 of the cruise missiles - almost 20
per cent of the Royal Navy's arsenal.

The weapons, which are fired from the submarine's torpedo tubes at periscope
depth, were made famous during the Gulf War, as they were filmed flying down
streets, turning corners and finding their own way to their targets.

Using a satellite guidance system called GPS (Global Positioning System), the
latest Tomahawk derivative became even better known after the recent U.S.

attacks on the Afghan base of international terror chief Osama bin Laden.

It is capable of delivering 1,000lb of high explosive to a target 1,000 miles
away within ten feet of its designated point of impact. It is believed the
Splendid's Tomahawks would have been aimed at precise Serbian targets - probably
communications, air defence and bunker systems.

The Splendid, a Swiftsure class submarine, was launched in 1981 and last went to
war in the Falklands in 1982, when it came close to sinking the Argentine
aircraft carrier Vinczenti de Mayo.

As well as the new Tomahawk system, it also carries sub-to-ship missiles and a
set of torpedoes.

Within its computer it has pre-programmed digital maps of potential hotspots
around the world, which the Tomahawks use to navigate their way to a target. If
it needs new information, it can be radioed in from the RAF station at
North-wood, north-west London.

Splendid is home to 116 officers and men and it patrols for up to three months
at a time, staying underwater almost the whole time.

The submariners work six hours on, six hours off. The crew does not have access
to live TV or radio - except BBC World Service - or newspapers. On patrol, each
man gets one 'familygram' message a week from his loved ones.

The submarine is based at the Faslane base on the Clyde. Many officers and
ratings from the base live in MoD quarters in surrounding villages.

The Rev Alistair Duncan, of the local Gareloch Head parish church, said prayers
had been offered during services for all those involved in the Kosovo situation.

BRITAIN'S SUPERSUB

NAVY HMS SPLENDID ATTACK SUBMARINE

Nuclear powered, it can stay at sea almost indefinitely. Now armed with Tomahawk
cruise missiles it can take out land targets a thousand miles away Class:
Swiftsure

Displacement: 4,900 tons (dived)

Length: 272ft

Speed: 32 knots (dived)

Power: 1 PWR nuclear reactor 2 auxiliary diesels

Crew: 116 officers and men

Weapons: 12 Tomahawks with 1,000lb warhead fired from torpedo tubes THE CREW

Crew sleep in 'cots'.

Facilities more spartan than on surface ships.

Only captain has his own cabin.

Officers are 2-5 per room.

56 junior ratings sleep together at front in 'battery hen farm'.

Crew spend 6 hours on then 6 off watch, bunks are shared.

Patrols last up to three months.

No access to live TV or radio.

Each gets one 'family gram' message a week.

Sub based at Faslane, near Glasgow.


LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              198 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 March 26, 1999

Letter: I want justice for my son's killers

BYLINE: RITA RESTORICK.

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 358 words


WHEN I heard that the Home Secretary was seeking a judicial review on the early
release of four IRA prisoners, my first thoughts were: unionists and
nationalists have seen those guilty of murdering their loved ones released early
but when it comes to someone guilty of bombings in England the Government
challenges it. I expect many in Northern Ireland felt the same way, especially
as these men had served up to 15 years in prison.

The person found guilty in Belfast last Friday of the murder of my son and two
others will be eligible for early release in July 2000 if all the provisions in
the Agreement are judged to be up and running by then. I had accepted this fact
with a heavy heart as I desperately want the Agreement to work so that this
tragic episode in our history can be ended.

However, Bertie Ahern has stated that the IRA men found guilty of the murder of
Garda McCabe will not be eligible for early release. Gerry Adams sat beside Mr
Ahern when commenting on the Home Secretary's challenge and I wondered why he
did not also turn to him and ask why he considered the scheme did not extend to
the Republic. The governments of Britain and the Republic were joint signatories
to the Agreement and I am not prepared to see the Republic's government
cherry-pick in this way. As far as I know, these are the only prisoners
sentenced for crimes committed in the Republic. Perhaps Mr Ahern forgot that
their case was due to come to court when he signed the Agreement and thought it
would not affect his government. What are his criteria for exempting them?

Due to Mr Ahern's decision, I am demanding that the men found guilty of a
variety of terrorist activities at Belfast Crown Court last Friday should be
treated in exactly the same way as those found guilty of the manslaughter of
Garda McCabe. Both crimes were carried out before the Agreement was signed but
conviction was not until afterwards. I shall do my utmost to achieve this on
behalf of the parents of the 10 soldiers and RUC men killed by a sniper in the
south Armagh area during 1992-93 who may not be able to see justice done in
court.

Nottingham.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              199 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             March 26, 1999, Friday

Bombing no match for moral fervour

BYLINE: General Sir Michael Rose

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 881 words


Balkans conflict: The art of war. Nato has the muscle and the rationale, but
Serbia has patriotic zeal on its side, writes General Sir Michael Rose

FIGHTING power is made up of three elements: weapons, doctrine, and the
willingness to fight, or moral component. Nato clearly has overwhelming
superiority in terms of firepower and doctrine. Indeed, a Nato official recently
observed of the Serbs that "the only thing in their favour is patriotic
fervour". It would be well to heed his words, as there are already too many
battlefields in history littered with military hardware and the remains of
soldiers whose leaders have failed to understand that it is the moral component
that in the end prevails. Examples since the end of the Second World War include
Vietnam, Afghanistan and Somalia.

Our TV screens are once again filled with video images of precision-guided
munitions homing in on their targets, and confident Ministry of Defence
briefings about what has been achieved. Yet before these images have faded from
our screens, it will undoubtedly begin to emerge that the attacks were not quite
so successful as first reported. In 1995 Nato launched a similar air campaign
against the Bosnian Serbs, comprising a total of 3,500 separate strikes. Because
of the long warning time, the majority of strikes proved to be against empty
barracks, ammunition bunkers and tank sheds. The Bosnian Serbs finally agreed to
peace because of the successful ground offensive launched by the Croatian Army
which took much of the territory that the Bosnian Serbs wished to trade for
peace on their terms.

After firm assurances that President Saddam Hussein of Iraq had been put back in
his box by the air campaign Operation Desert Fox launched in December 1998, the
US and UK air forces have already been forced to widen the scope of their
attacks in Iraq.

The message is clear. There are limitations to what can be obtained through
bombing.

Nato urgently needs to develop a coherent long-term strategy capable of
delivering the desired political goals in Serbia - something that it has so far
consistently failed to do.

Correctly, in my view, the deployment of Nato troops in an interventionist,
warfighting role in Kosovo has already been politically excluded from future
military options.

However, it would certainly still be possible for Nato to deploy troops in a
preventive role along the borders of Kosovo, Albania and Macedonia. This would
allow the aid agencies and possibly monitors from the Organisation for Security
and Co-operation in Europe to resume their work in Kosovo. Some leverage would
also be exercised over the KLA, which remains a significant part of the problem
and would threaten President Milosevic that if he did not stop ethnic cleansing
and agree to compromise Nato would train and equip the KLA.

Whatever long- term strategy is developed, it will be vitally important to
maintain the support of the people whose countries are now at war as members of
Nato. If, as they have threatened to do, the Serbs decide to take their war into
their enemies' camp and mount terrorist-style attacks against either Nato
targets in Bosnia, Macedonia, or in the homelands of Nato member states, there
will have to be a commitment among our populations to persevere in the face of
both civilian and military casualties.

The will to win depends largely on how deeply people believe in the legal and
moral justification for war. Yet the basis for Nato intervention in Kosovo is
not clear. Article 2 of the United Nations Charter, which recognises the
sovereign equality of all nations, has evidently been breached by the Nato
action. This may be acceptable when set against the growing belief that the
international community has a duty to intervene where gross violations of human
rights are taking place or where it is necessary to prevent a conflict from
spreading.

However, it would surely have been better for Nato to have obtained the
authorisation of the UN before acting and thus avoid the accusation that it is
behaving like the Sheriff in the OK Corral.

Hitherto, in Britain and France there has never been any questioning of the high
numbers of casualties inflicted on their peacekeepers in Bosnia - a figure which
now exceeds 100. The same level of resilience may not be present among all our
allies. For when the US Army lost 14 soldiers killed in Mogadishu, the Americans
pulled out of Somalia, causing the entire mission to collapse. Nato leaders
should be aware that Bismarck's warning that the Balkans "are not worth the
bones of a single Pomeranian grenadier" still ring true in many people's minds.
In 1898 a study on The Future of War by a man called Ivan Bloch argued that the
development of military technology combined with universal conscription had
rendered the successful prosecution of war too cumbersome and costly. He
predicted that a protracted war of attrition would result in no clear victory,
exhaust armies and that nations would end in a state of revolution.

One hundred years later, Europe is again at war. We may do well to heed his
words.

General Sir Michael Rose is the former commander of UN peacekeeping troops in
Bosnia and is the author of Fighting for Peace, published by Harvill Press.


LOAD-DATE: March 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       March 27, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Hysterical media drive to demonise Serbia

SECTION: LETTERS, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 279 words


   THE bombing of Yugoslavia, a sovereign state, by British and US warplanes is
unprecedented in post-1945 Europe. These actions are in contravention of the
United Nations charter, international law and even Nato's own "self-defence"
treaty.

As always, the first casualty of war is the truth. A hysterical media campaign
has been developed to demonise Serbia/Yugoslavia, while terrorist atrocities of
the separatist Kosovo Liberation Army are ignored.

Whatever the human rights violations by Yugoslavia, they do not justify the
bombing, nor the Nato demand for occupation of Yugoslav territory. Such
interference in the internal affairs of a sovereign state constitutes naked
aggression. It does not even have the fig-leaf of United Nations approval.

The approach of the Nato powers is completely hypocritical and intended to
promote their own military domination of the Balkans. They claim the action has
been taken to avoid a "humanitarian disaster" but they have deliberately created
the situation by supplying arms to the KLA.

In contrast, Nato has done nothing to ease the plight of the Palestinian and
Lebanese peoples suffering from Israeli aggression, nor the people of East Timor
under Indonesian occupation.

In Turkey, the Kurdish freedom fighters against military repression are
"terrorists". The difference is that Indonesia and Israel are regarded as
allies, and Turkey is a loyal member of Nato.

The situation can easily escalate. The bombing must be stopped and the search
must be continued for a peaceful solution through application of international
law and the United Nations charter.

MARTIN LEVY,

Communist Party of Britain.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              201 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 March 27, 1999

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 378 words


Knee damages

ACTRESS Eunice Gayson, 66, who appeared in 50 films, including Bond movies Dr No
and From Russia With Love, has won a High Court damages action over knee
injuries caused when she fell over an electrical cable at a motor racing event
at Goodwood, Sussex. Damages against Goodwood Estates will be assessed later.

Time for music

Some of Britain's top musical stars are being lined up for a millennium musical
extravaganza. As Time Goes By is being staged by Brit Awards producer Malcolm
Gerrie at the National Maritime Museum in Greenwich, London, and has been signed
up by BBC1.

Comic's MBE

Comedian Charlie Williams, who shot to fame in the 1970s, made a special
appearance at Buckingham Palace. Charlie, 71, from Barnsley, received an MBE
from the Prince of Wales in recognition of his work for charity in Yorkshire.

Butane ban

SALE of butane lighter fuel to the under-18s is set to be banned in a bid to
stop youngsters sniffing the potentially lethal gas.

Death tunnel

EXHAUSTED firefighters from three countries battled searing heat and toxic smoke
in a tunnel under Western Europe's highest peak, searching through scorched
vehicles for victims of a blaze that killed at least 30 people. The seven-mile
Mont Blanc tunnel turned into a fiery inferno three days ago, when the blaze
broke out in a truck carrying flour and margarine. At one point, temperatures in
the tunnel reached 1,000 degrees centigrade.

Three to die

The Supreme Court in Tajikistan has convicted and sentenced to death three men
for killing four United Nations workers in the volatile central Asian nation.
Three UN military observers from Poland, Uruguay and Japan and their Tajik
translator were ambushed last July while they patrolled mountains 90 miles east
of the Tajik capital, Dushanbe.

Lebanon bomb

Lebanese guerrillas detonated a roadside bomb in southern Lebanon, injuring two
Israeli soldiers, one of them seriously, officials said in Nabatiyeh. The
Iranian-backed Hezbollah claimed responsibility for the bombing near the village
of Wadi el-Hojeir.

Crash kills 15

A head-on crash between a van and a truck killed 15 people near Ahmedabad, in
western India. The cause of the accident is under investigation, but police said
that the lorry was being driven negligently.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              202 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 March 28, 1999

BOOKS: Troubles in mind;
Out of the mouths of murderers and politicians two books on the last 30 years in
Northern Ireland: review: Loyalists by Peter Taylor / Battling For Peace by
Richard Needham

BYLINE: HENRY MCDONALD

SECTION: The Observer Review Page; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 934 words


Loyalists by Peter Taylor

Bloomsbury pounds 16.99, pp257

Observer price pounds 13.99 Tel 0500 500 171

Battling For Peace by Richard Needham

Blackstaff Press pounds 20.99, pp328

Observer price pounds 19.00 Tel 0500 500 171

My father and I are still alive due to the incompetence of a UVF bombmaker. One
Friday evening in 1974, at the height of the Troubles, a car bomb exploded
outside my house in Belfast. The target of the attack was the Catholic-owned bar
next door, but our home took the full force of the blast. Miraculously, we
escaped serious injury because, according to a British soldier, the man who
placed the device put it in the wrong end of the car, which meant the blast went
up instead of across the street.

Reading Loyalists, Peter Taylor's new book on loyalist terrorism, brought back
those dark days of the early Seventies when any Catholic was a target. The core
of his work consists of frank interviews with those who carried out some of the
most chilling acts of terror over the last 30 years. What makes this book better
than his previous one, Provos, is how the loyalists are so honest about their
own brutality. Taylor deserves praise for persuading the likes of former UDA
killer John White to describe in clinical detail how he stabbed two of his
victims to death.

The author allows the loyalists to attack one of the central elements in modern
republican mythology that the Provisional IRA's emergence was caused by the
loyalist offensive against Catholic areas of Belfast in 1969. In this book, UVF
leaders such as Billy Hutchinson and David Ervine explain that Protestants felt
a parallel sense of danger and threat from Catholics during the genesis of the
Troubles.

There are a number of gaps in the book where Taylor appears to have let the
loyalist paramilitaries off the hook. Everyone in Northern Ireland knows that
sections of the UDA in Belfast and the UVF in Mid-Ulster were the main forces
behind the Province's drugs trade of the early 1990s. In Loyalists, there is
little or no mention of this, despite the fact that a number of arms deals were
paid for thanks to the proceeds of selling ecstasy and cannabis.

Richard Needham, a former junior Tory Minister for the Northern Ireland office,
once fell victim to the loyalists. The UDA managed to intercept one of Needham's
mobile-phone calls during the 1990 Conservative leadership challenge.
Unfortunately for Needham, he happened to say that Thatcher 'the cow' should
resign. The UDA passed the tape to a newspaper and Needham's views on Thatcher
went public. It is no wonder Needham has harboured a hatred of all loyalist
paramilitaries ever since.

In Battling For Peace, his memoirs about his time at the Northern Ireland
Office, Needham recounts this embarrassing episode. He doesn't retreat from his
view of Thatcher. 'I have to say that, like most of my party, I felt that, after
10 years of being bossed about, we had had enough.' According to Needham, the
hostility was mutual. He quotes Thatcher's private secretary, Sir Charles
Powell, who later remarked that if Britain still had an empire, then the former
Prime Minister would have sent Needham to a post a long way away from Northern
Ireland.

It is insights such as this which make Needham's book worth reading. The former
Minister is candid about his own party's decision to stand candidates in
Northern Ireland. The Ulster Tories, after an initial hype, were humiliated at
the polls, their nadir being their crushing defeat in the 1990 Upper Bann
by-election, which was won by David Trimble. Needham offers local Conservatives
no comfort, describing the Tory foray into Ulster politics as 'not a happy story
and so far not a happy ending'.

Throughout the worst days of the early 1990s, when the loyalists were outkilling
the IRA, Needham stood out as a jolly, optimistic figure on the political
landscape, with a conviction that the Troubles were grinding to an inevitable
end. He finishes his book with this prediction: 'I am now convinced that there
is a far higher probability of lasting reconciliation between the vast majority
of both communities than at any other time in the last 30 years. There is now
light at the end of the tunnel.' Taylor also pays off on a bright note, quoting
former UVF gunman Bobby Morton: 'If someone on all sides will declare that the
war is over, I will rejoice and I look forward to the day when I can even have a
pint on the Falls Road. Now that would be something to look forward to, wouldn't
it?' But recent events may force Taylor into rapidly writing a second edition,
particularly in light of the murder of Rosemary Nelson and the suspected
involvement of the UDA a group meant to be on ceasefire in the killing. Loyalism
is now in a state of deep confusion; the idea that the October 1994 cessation is
a point of no return may need revising. Super-optimistic, peace-process watchers
have failed to appreciate that a significant section of loyalist paramilitaries
have lost faith in the Good Friday Agreement.

As we approach the first anniversary of the accord, there are more traps ahead
for those like Ervine and Hutchinson who still tread the peace path. Their
journey from terrorist to peacemakers runs parallel to the route taken by
republican figures like Gerry Adams. The trouble for Ervine and Hutchinson is
the same as that of Adams how long can they hold the line within their own ranks
before risking a potentially disastrous split which in turn will roll back the
progress achieved by former enemies last Easter?


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              203 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                             March 28, 1999, Sunday

FURY OVER BALCOMBE BOMBER'S WEEKEND BREAKS

BYLINE: David Mcgee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 626 words


THE IRA terrorist given 12 life sentences for killing 16 people during the
1970s, and who was behind the murder of Guinness Book of Records editor Ross
McWhirter, is being allowed out of jail at weekends.

Martin O'Connell, who was a member of the notorious Balcombe Street gang and the
bomb-maker behind the Guildford and Woolwich atrocities, is the Provos'
longest-serving prisoner.

The decision to allow him home from top-security Portlaoise prison heaps fresh
embarrassment on Britain's attempts to appease the growing anger over the early
release of terrorists ahead of the Good Friday Agreement.

It comes just days after Jack Straw's last-minute bid to prevent three IRA
lifers'walking free ended in humiliating defeat, and has sparked outrage among
families of O'Connell's victims.

Last night Jean Hunter, of Barrhead, Renfrewshire, who lost her 17-year- old son
John when O'Connell's bomb exploded in the Horse and Groom pub in Guildford,
Surrey, said: "This makes a mockery of the law."It is nearly 25 years

since my son John was killed. I still feel that I can't rest in the knowledge
that justice has been done. I am deeply surprised and disappointed at the news."

DUP spokesman Ian Paisley junior also objected to O'Connell's weekend breaks,
saying: "This undermines the whole principal of law in the United Kingdom.

"This gang were nothing more than criminal thugs who latched on to the
Republican cause for their own ends."

O'Connell, who learned his deadly trade while training as a wireless operator at
the Marconi School in Cork, developed the IRA's boobytrap bomb technique, where
devices are detonated by radio signal.

John Hunter, a rookie Scots Guardsman, was one of five victims of two bombs set
off by O'Connell's gang just a few hundred yards apart in Guildford. A further
65 people were injured.

O'Connell later planted the device which killed two people in a pub in Woolwich,
South London.

He was finally captured with fellow gang members Harry Duggan and Hugh Doherty
after a six-day siege in London's Mayfair in December 1975.

The siege - which led to them being called the Balcombe Street gang - and
subsequent capture followed an 18-month reign of terror which paralysed the
capital.

The gang's victims included Ross McWhirter, who was shot on his own doorstep;
cancer specialist Professor Gordon Hamilton-Fairley, killed by a car bomb
outside his home; and bomb disposal expert Roger Goad, blown up by a device in a
shop doorway.

They were also responsible for a string of bombings, including one at the home
of former Prime Minister Edward Heath.

One of the more ambitious projects was to flood the London Underground.

Two years ago the Home Office recommended that O'Connell and the other Balcombe
Street bombers spend the rest of their lives in jail.

But less than a year later they were transferred back to Ireland from an English
jail, sparking fury among Unionists. Soon after they were given their first "day
out" for 23 years - when they were given permission to attend a Sinn Fein
conference.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam, who initially supported their 36- hour
break, apologised to the killers' victims after Sinn Fein hailed O'Connell and
his fellow gang members as "Nelson Mandelas".

Despite her sentiments and recent calls to slow down the release of IRA
prisoners until the terrorists hand over their weapons, O'Connell is again being
allowed out of jail.

His weekend breaks start at 6am on Fridays and last until Sunday evening.
O'Connell, 46, spends the time with family and friends in his home town of
Ennis, County Clare.

Last night a spokesman for the Republic's Justice Department refused to comment
"as a matter of policy".

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAILED FOR LIFE...O'Connell

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              204 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           March 31, 1999, Wednesday

Alleged terrorists win human rights battle

BYLINE: Frances Gibb

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 773 words


Landmark ruling paves way for host of legal challenges under new Act, writes
Frances Gibb.

FOUR alleged terrorists won a landmark ruling yesterday that paves the way for a
host of legal challenges under the Human Rights Act 1998.

It is the first ruling to allow defendants to invoke the Act, which enshrines
the European Human Rights Convention into British law, even before it comes into
force next year.

The Lord Chief Justice, Lord Bingham of Cornhill, and two other judges ruled
that the prosecution of the four men violated their right to a fair trial. The
ruling, if upheld in the House of Lords, also renders useless provisions of the
Prevention of Terrorism Act 1989 aimed at stopping Britain from being used as a
base for foreign terrorists.

The four Algerians were arrested in 1997. Three of them, Sofiane Kebilene, Farid
Boukemiche and Sofiane Souidi, are accused of "having in their possession
chemical containers, radio equipment, manuals, documents, credit cards and sums
of money in circumstances which give rise to a reasonable suspicion that the
articles were in their possession for a purpose connected with the commission,
preparation or instigation of acts of terrorism".

A similar charge against Fateh Rechachi relates to "documents, cards, computer
discs, money and books". The provisions at the centre of the case effectively
reverse the normal burden of proof by requiring a defendant to establish that he
had suspect items for an innocent purpose.

Lord Bingham said that the section undermined "in a blatant and obvious way" the
right of a defendant to be presumed innocent until proved guilty, which was a
violation of everyone's right to a fair trial under the European Convention on
Human Rights.

He could "conceive of no circumstances" in which, if the court concluded that
the trial was unfair, it would not go on to find a violation of the European
convention.

Already one case in the Court of Appeal was awaiting yesterday's ruling. Two
Palestinians convicted of the 1994 car-bomb attack on the Israeli Embassy are
challenging non-disclosure of documents under the Human Rights Act.

Other challenges are likely to follow across the whole investigative process,
such as granting bail, police interview techniques, police surveillance and
sentencing provisions. There could also be challenges to decisions by public
authorities - such as planning decisions - where appeals are likely to take
place after the Act is in force.

Lord Bingham, sitting with Lord Justice Laws and Mr Justice Sullivan, ruled
yesterday that the Director of Public Prosecutions had acted unlawfully in
pressing ahead with charges of possessing items for the purpose of committing
terrorism abroad.

The DPP would probably expect the Act to be brought into force within a couple
of years, the judges said. He could assume that the trial could result in
convictions and their convictions "would in all probability be quashed, at some
not inconsiderable cost to the public purse and no obvious advantage to the
public weal".

The DPP was granted leave to appeal to the House of Lords.

David Pannick, QC, for the DPP, had argued that there was no inconsistency
between Section 16 of the Prevention of Terrorism Act and the "fair trial"
provisions of Article 6 (2) of the European convention. In any case, he argued,
the convention would not become part of English law until next year, when the
Human Rights Act 1998 took effect, and it was the DPP's duty to apply the law as
it now stood.

Gareth Peirce, the solicitor for the men, who remain on bail. said: "This is
important not just for the case itself, but in saying that however draconian the
intent of Parliament, it cannot override inalienable rights."

John Wadham, director of Liberty, the civil rights group, said: "This case
illustrates the importance that the Human Rights Act will assume when it comes
into force because for the first time it will give us positive rights and
prevent the Government using legislation that violates those rights.

"I hope now that the Government will implement the Act fairly quickly rather
than leave us in this legal limbo."

Anne Owers, director of Justice, said that the ruling showed how vulnerable this
kind of legislation was to challenges under the Human Rights Act.

"Already the Act is living and breathing within the UK judicial system and there
is now a very powerful argument for the Act being implemented in full as soon as
practicable."

Senior police officers are concerned that the human rights legislation will
prove to be a potent weapon against investigations.


LOAD-DATE: March 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              205 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 1, 1999, Thursday

LETTER: MR COOK MUST GIVE US THE REAL FACTS

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1873 words


Sir, - Berthram Prouse was indeed correct (Post, Mar 26) by calling Mr Cook a
"dangerous fool". He has fooled the House of Commons in his speeches by not
telling the House who are the KLA?

Whose army are they? Who arms, supplies, feeds, clothes, pays and transports
them? If he does not know, then he should resign his job, and let in someone
else who would know these things, and inform the country.

Mr Cook does know, but keeps the knowledge a taboo, for he listens to the orders
from Madeline Albright and the White House, whose policy objectives are the
conquest of the Balkans, and annihilation of the Serbs.

Cook wholeheartedly agrees with this policy and authoritatively announces, like
Himmler, his final solution of the Serb issue.

The KLA is a German and US - ie CIA's - army. Germany trained several thousand
Albanian guest workers in military camps in Germany in the art of guerilla
warfare, and on completion of the course "repatriated" the trainees to Yugoslav
Kosovo.

The CIA, on the other hand, started the scheme at the end of 1992 by setting up
a camp in Albania for training Islamic terrorists, for the attack of Serb
targets when ordered.

The president and director of the USA's Senate Task Force on Terrorism wrote two
years ago about training and drugs trafficking of the KLA. Of course the job of
Messrs Blair, Cook and Robertson is to keep this taboo under control.

Mr Cook deliberately misled the House time after time by the lie that Serbs are
primarily concerned with terrorising the Albanian people, and not by fighting
the terrorists entrenched in the villages and towns of Kosovo.

He further misled and deceived Parliament and the country, when on January 20 he
deliberately sided with William Walker's set-up of the "Ratchak massacre", by
falsely accusing the Serbs of the "massacre".

The continental Press in several countries accused the US's verifier Walker of
trumping up charges against the Serbs. The media here and in the US stuck to
their guns with Walker.

That the Serbs were not responsible for the "massacre" has been testified by the
Finnish Forensic Science Group. The last, but not least, testimony of US former
Attorney General Ramsey Clark, exposed on January 26 Walker's frauds in Colonel
Nort's scandal with El Salvador and Guatemala case. Mr Cook hides all these from
the British people.

S R VLAHOVIC

Moseley,

Birmingham.

Truth? Just

a PR word

Sir, - With reference to Sheila Burgess-Smith's letter (Post, Mar 26), my advice
is watch either BBC or ITV news. Apart from the different presenters there is no
choice. The content will be the same as they are given the same "hymn sheet".

It brings a wry smile to this old face when I hear the British media claiming
that the Serbs only hear and see what their government wants them to know.

We are subject to the most draconian censorship in the whole of the western
world; we have never been told the truth for the last 50 years or more.

Only when old official documents are finally released do we get an idea of what
happened then, but remember that many documents are considered "too sensitive"
to be put on public display.

As for finding out the truth from a British company - forget it!

Truth is just a word in the PR vocabulary.

J L MULLINS

Redditch,

Worcestershire.

Foreign policy of

destruction

Sir, - With British and Allied forces committed to action against Serbia we must
all be united and steadfast in praying for a safe and successful end to their
mission.

Nobody will question Mr Blair's sincerity or his vote winning presentational
skills but we can still question his judgment.

His reason for attacking a former ally and an independent sovereign state is to
"prevent a humanitarian disaster".

Could he not foresee that his aggression would massively increase the deaths of
Kosovan Albanians, the destruction of their homes, the flood of refugees and
create a greater "humanitarian disaster"?

Why was Parliament not consulted before we committed an illegal act of
aggression?

Does he really have a coherent strategy apart from ongoing destruction and does
he have clean contingency plans?

Were the risks, costs and benefits nationally assessed?

Could he not foresee problems with Russia, China and other countries?

What will be the consequences of converting Nato from a defensive law -upholding
alliance into a "have power/may use it" unpredictable threat?

In the Gulf War we used depleted uranium which is still causing cancer,
malformation and death of 5,000 children each month. Are we using depleted
uranium against Serbia?

Who will Mr Blair want to bomb next? The Russians committed atrocities in
Chechnya; the Chinese committed atrocities in Tibet; the Israelis have been
ethnically cleansing and killing Palestinians for 50 years in defiance of United
Nations resolutions; there are plenty of other nasty corrupt and murderous
regimes.

Is it not time to abandon New Labour's "ethical" foreign policy which brings
death, destruction and mayhem?

Should our foreign policy not again be based on British interests and the
preservation of international law?

Those were the reasons which justified the Falklands War and the Gulf War to
expel illegal foreign aggressors.

And finally - can we believe Mr Blair's statement that he will not commit
British ground forces without the consent of the Yugoslav governments?

JAMES HUTCHINGS

Edgbaston,

Birmingham.

Some crimes must

be dealt with

Sir, - Your Editorial comment (Post, Mar 25) on Pinochet seems to owe more to
the well-known prejudice of one of your shareholders than to logic or law.

Both logic and morality require those who are responsible for the torture and
death of thousands of innocent people to face trial and retribution.

International law, international treaties and English law all require
extradition requests to be dealt with, as has happened in this case, by proper
judicial process. Pinochet has been treated in Britain with a fairness which he
does not deserve, and which he denied to the victims of his monstrous regime.

This country can be proud to have contributed to establishing the principle that
some crimes against humanity are so serious that no limitation of time or place
or jurisdiction can bar bringing the criminals to justice.

JAMES WILKINSON

Yardley,

Birmingham.

Strait jacket to

fit the EU

Sir, - Mr Coppinger (Post, Mar 23) conveniently forgets that a huge swathe of
businesses are against the euro. Business For Sterling (of which the FSB is a
founder member) consists of businesses of all shapes and sizes.

Even the OECD has stated that the introduction of the euro (currently worth
66.46p and still falling) could destabilise the economies of those participating
countries unless they get to grips with the problems of their inflexible labour
markets.

Britain is rapidly building a strait-jacket (via current and soon-to-be
-introduced labour laws) to fit the EU rather than the other way around, so
there is not much chance of that happening over there.

Incidentally, "Corpus Juris" still lurks although the European Commission is
curiously reticent to release a copy. "Corpus Juris" April 1997 - ISBN: 27178 -
33447 is the full title if anyone else wishes to try?

Dr BERNARD JUBY

Chairman,

Employment Affairs Committee,

Federation of Small Businesses.

Exciting, so

tell us more

Sir, - While I accept the very good point made by Mr Lee of Conservative Future
that genetically modified food is simply an extension of selective breeding, my
mother does not.

She says, he might as well say nuclear bombs are an extension of man's use of
fire and lung cancer is an extension of the body's natural system of decay.

Could Mr Lee explain in more detail how he reaches his conclusions, particularly
how live viruses are used in this technology. I understand from my reading of
New Scientist that this is one of the most exciting parts?

JOHN SAUNDERS HUNT

Walsall.

Safeguard innocence

of children

Sir, - "Parents' fears for children in a bedroom culture of TV" screams the
headline (Post, Mar 19). I think children being "trapped" with their own
television upstairs could hardly be in greater moral danger than if their
parents sent them to bed with the whole of Babylon.

This morning (Mar 24) I heard an item on a Radio 4 news programme, informing us
that girls as young as ten are having sexual intercourse (though I have little
faith in "media studies").

This is the result of children being given knowledge before they are ready for
it by well-meaning but stupid feminists. But much more than that, it is the
fault of television, and by that I mean those arrogant film-makers with swelled
heads who simply do not care what damage they do to delicate, unformed minds, so
long as their names are in the news and, like the money-grabbing women
"novelists", their bank-balances are swelling.

If there was one thing that made Christ blaze with anger while he was on earth
and threaten the perpetrators, it was those people who destroyed the innocence
of children.

MTC

Birmingham.

Young drivers must

be restricted

Sir, - After reading yet another article in The Birmingham Post about a fatal
road accident involving a young driver and a powerful car, I feel compelled to
write.

In this country anyone can legally get behind the wheel of a powerful car and
take to the road with no formal training.

Is it not time that legislation be brought in to limit young and inexperienced
drivers to certain types of car, similar to the way motorcyclists are dealt
with?

There is a step-by-step process of limiting riders according to age and
experience to 50cc and restricted power bikes.

Furthermore, first-time riders have to take Compulsory Basic Training to learn
the essentials of bike control and road safety before even being allowed on the
road under the supervision of a qualified instructor.

I believe this legislation has been successful in limiting fatal and serious
accidents involving motorcycles.

What about the freedom of the individual that similar legislation would impose
on car drivers, you may ask?

My reply is that young drivers do not have the experience, ability or self
control to look to the safety of other people, let alone their own or that of
their passengers.

It is self evident that it is essential to protect the majority of road users
from such inexperienced and reckless drivers; anything else runs the risk of
sacrificing the ultimate freedom, the right to live.

People will say it is impractical to limit the type of vehicle that someone can
use, but it is relatively simple in the case of motorcycles.

The engine size and power output is stamped on the Vehicle Identification Number
plate. Every car is specified in the same way and it would be possible to
classify and identify vehicles in ascending scale of engine size and power.

I realise that these measures alone would not solve the problem of irresponsible
young drivers, but I feel it would be one measure that would have a practical
effect.

JOHN WORMALD

Warley.

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: True story: Foreign Secretary Robin Cook at a news conference this week
to discuss the disabling of Yugoslav forces. See lead letter.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              206 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 3, 1999

Ten-year trail spanned the world and never turned cold . . .

BYLINE: Andrew Beavan

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 764 words


WHEN Pan Am flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, it started one of the largest
manhunts the world has ever seen.

Two hundred and seventy people died in the terrorist bombing outrage on December
21, 1988, including 259 passengers and crew, and 11 residents of the Scottish
town.

In the aftermath, 5,000 police from 13 forces, plus 1,200 troops combed an area
of 900 square miles, working it grid fashion, square by square, looking for
clues. Some were found 70 miles away.

Grim details of the explosion emerged in September 1990. According to the
Department of Transport's Air Accident Branch, the bomb blast took between two
and three seconds to destroy the plane.

The nose and flight deck of the Boeing 747 - containing the first class
passengers and crew - ripped away within a few seconds of the explosion in the
forward cargo hold.

No one was killed in the immediate blast as the plane cruised at 31,000 ft. But
as the aircraft plunged from 19,000 to 9,000 ft, it began to break up - and the
majority of passengers were thrown out. Some died in the disintegration, as
debris crashed into them, others when they hit the ground.

An inquiry into the tragedy heard it took victims about two minutes to hit the
ground after the plane exploded, and experts said they could have been conscious
for part or even all of the six-mile fall.

The clues on the ground enabled detectives to piece together events on the
fateful night, and in November 1990, two Libyan intelligence agents, Abdel Baset
Ali Mohmed al-Megrahi and Al Amin Khalifa Fhimah, become the world's most wanted
terrorists when they were formally charged with the bombing.

Both Britain and America demanded that Libya hand them over. Charges were
announced simultaneously in Scotland and the U.S. and warrants were sent to
Tripoli via Interpol.

The man who tracked down the two suspects was Detective chief inspector Harry
Bell, from Glasgow.

The trail took him to Tokyo to meetings with the heads of Toshiba where he was
able to prove that the explosive and detonator had been set into a portable
radio made by the company.

It also took him to Malta where a shred of cloth in which the Toshiba radio had
been wrapped it was among four million bits assembled in bags from the crash was
tracked down to a particular clothing shop in Sliema, on the same street as the
local office of the Libyan People's Bureau.

The Libyan connection had already surfaced when it was found that detonator
fragments matched detonators in the possession of two Libyan agents arrested by
Senegalese police in 1988 and later released.

But even after the suspects were named and warrants issued for their arrest, it
was never certain that a trial would proceed.

In November 1991 - a year after the pair were first named - Britain and America
turned up the pressure on Colonel Gaddafi with a powerfully-worded ultimatum.

They told him to surrender the two secret agents, admit Libya's own hand in the
atrocity and pay compensation to the relatives of the 270 victims.

Protracted diplomatic wrangling failed to persuade Colonel Gadaffi and in 1992,
the United Nation imposed sanctions on Libya to try and force them to act.

Sanctions prohibited all international air travel to and from Libya, limited
diplomatic contacts and curtailed trade, especially within the nation's vital
oil industry.

Libya refused to release the suspects, however, claiming they would not receive
a fair trial in the West, and leader Colonel Gadaffi insisted that any trial
would have to be conducted by an international court not by judges in either the
UK or the U.S.

But last year Libya agreed to a trial in the Netherlands by a Scottish court,
although refusing to have the suspects jailed in the West.

Libya called for assurances that the sanctions would be lifted after the two
suspects were handed over.

In August last year, Britain and the United States agreed to a hearing in the
Netherlands, conducted under Scots law.

Last month, there was vital breakthrough in the ten-year battle to bring the
bomb suspects to justice after the South African President Nelson Mandela
brokered a deal and Colonel Gaddafi pledged to hand over the suspects by April
6.

A former NATO air base near Utrecht had already been converted for the trial,
with the addition of high-security barriers and surveillance equipment.

As agreed under the Anglo-American proposal the two men will be tried before a
Scottish court under Scottish law, but with the jury replaced by three Scottish
High Court judges.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: (1)HORROR: PART OF THE BOMBED AIRCRAFT(2) HIGH SECURITY: THE
BEHIND-BARS LOCATION IN HOLLAND WHERE THE LOCKERBIE TRIAL WILL BE HELD

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              207 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             April 4, 1999, Sunday

UK SERBS' BLITZ THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 75 words


BOMB disposal experts are on red alert because Serb terrorists may blitz Britain
- helped by renegade IRA bombers.

Many of the 50,000 Serbs living here have been in the Yugoslav army. "They could
use their training to start bombing," said a security source. But the biggest
fear is a Serb link-up with ex-IRA bombers.

"They are the world's best," said the source. And a Republican source warned: "A
few IRA nutters would join in."

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              208 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 5, 1999, Monday

EUROPE AT WAR THE BOMBING: 10 DAYS OF FEROCITY;
 NATO VOWS TO STEP UP AIR RAIDS ON EVIL KILLERS

BYLINE: Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6, 7

LENGTH: 886 words


NATO vowed yesterday to unleash 10 days of ferocious bombing to stop the tragedy
in Kosovo.

Warplanes hit President Milosevic's killing squads on the ground for the first
time as clouds covering the region cleared.

It ended 12 days of frustration when bad weather stopped them from carrying out
pinpoint raids - and came amid the clearest hint yet that the deployment of
troops is inevitable.

More daylight raids are being planned as Nato throws in the full weight of its
air power.

One Whitehall source said: "You will see 10 days of unparallelled ferocity. It
may not bring Milosevic to heel but it will stop the cleansing."

Prime Minister Tony Blair said the air raids would be pursued with "iron
resolve".

He promised the fleeing refugees: "We will not let you down. We will make sure
you are able to return to your homes and live in peace."

Once the back of Milosevic's war machine is broken, plans are being drawn up for
troops to ram two wedges deep into Kosovo.

Nato, Pentagon and Ministry of Defence planners say at least 60,000 troops would
advance into the beleagured province in an "offensive peacekeeping" role.

It would mean at least two heavily patrolled corridors of communication through
the mountains to the major towns.

One source said the force would be able to handle terrorist attacks and gun
battles but would not be set up for full scale fighting.

But they could be forced to stay for more than 10 years.

Senior Nato officials still say there is no backing for a land war. But a source
said: "Even if this is not a ground war, we must still be prepared for mopping
up some Serbian forces."

Nato has 12,000 troops in Macedonia but feels it would need at least 28,000 just
to enforce a peace agreement in Kosovo.

A land assault would mean at least 100,000 troops with heavy artillery and tanks
as well as helicopter gunships.

US Secretary of State Madeleine Albright said the US was determined to press
ahead with the air campaign.

The attacks were "very much on target" and would continue for a long time to
"stop this slaughter".

The US is sending 2,000 more troops to Albania, said National Security Adviser
Sandy Berger.

But he denied that it signalled a ground war, insisting they would be used along
with low flying Apache helicopter gunships also being sent to the area.

"These helicopters are able to go into Kosovo and do considerable damage to the
Serb forces," he said.

RAF Harrier pilots finally roared back into action as frustration at the bad
weather ended.

Ten GR7s flew from Gioia del Colle in southern Italy on their first daytime
raid, a search and destroy mission against mobile Serb targets.

One RAF chief said: "The dangers are obvious. If they can see the ground, the
people on the ground can see them and they can be shot at." Ninety minutes later
they were back but again without dropping a single bomb.

Group Captain Ian Travers Smith said: "Their prime purpose was to attack mobile
targets. No such opportunities presented themselves.

"We are not just dropping bombs willy nilly."

American pilots were resting at RAF Fairford, Gloucs, after an "exhausting" all
night mission over Kosovo.

Two B1 bombers and three B52s returned safely from the "successful" raid.

One pilot, on his first mission for the Nato strike force, said: "I flew right
through the night in a B1 and I am still tired. It was very busy, incredibly
complicated but successful."

The pilot, whose bomber carried cluster bombs and scores of 500lbs bombs, said:
"It took us three to four hours just to get to the Kosovan area.

"Morale is strong.. we are very focused people, very strong about this. We are
doing missions well because we want to get them right."

Missile attacks against Belgrade struck at the heart of Milosevic's forces,
destroying the First Army headquarters at the weekend.

A vast fireball lit up the sky as a hail of cruise missiles also hit the
Internal Security Institute, oil refineries, fuel storage tanks, a heating plant
and cut off phones and hot water in large areas of the city.

A bridge in the northern town of Novi Sad - the second to be destroyed - blocked
the Danube in a bid to halt supplies from the sea.

Air Marshal Sir John Day, director of operations at the Ministry of Defence,
said Nato carried out "a substantial series of attacks". The Allies were
"cutting deep" into Milosevic's war machine, it was said.

Nato denied Serb claims that they had hit civilian buildings, farms and
vehicles, killing three people and injuring 17.

A spokesman said they were not out to make the Serb people suffer but to hit
Milosevic where it hurts in a bid to make him halt his atrocities against the
Kosovar Albanians.

Milosevic's own palace should become a target for air strikes, German Defence
Minister Rudolf Scharping said.

"He shouldn't have the feeling he can murder people in Kosovo but remain
unmolested himself."

The next few days are likely to be decisive as the stakes in the war are
ratcheted up.

Britain is sending four more Harriers and eight Tornados equipped with ground
following radar to allow air strikes in any kind of bad weather.

And 13 more American F117 Nighthawk Stealth fighters arrived in Germany to back
up the campaign.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESTROYED: A second bridge wrecked by Nato bombs in Novi Sad blocks the
River; Danube, halting supplies reaching Milosevic's war machine from the sea;
DEADLY:; Some of the 13 American F117 Nighthawk Stealth fighters arrive in
Germany yesterday ready to boost the Nato air campaign against Serbia

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              209 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 5, 1999, Monday

TONY PARSONS'S COLUMN: ULSTER'S LAST HOPE IS MARCH TOWARDS PEACE

BYLINE: Tony Parsons

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 973 words


THIS Easter Monday marks the start of the marching season - Northern Ireland's
ritual expression of tribal fear and loathing.

If anything demonstrates the way that the past has blighted Northern Ireland's
present, then it is the willingness of grown men to march up and down in
commemoration of battles that were fought centuries ago.

And what makes the marching season even more bizarre to English eyes is that
these parades invariably take the marchers into neighbourhoods where they are
not wanted and where their presence is seen as offensive.

That's Ulster for you. A place where the Battle Of The Boyne feels closer than
the Battle Of Britain. "We are about to land in Belfast," goes the old joke.
"Please put your watch back 300 years."

But this Easter Monday is very different from the rest. Because a real and
lasting peace is finally within Northern Ireland's grasp.

Tony Blair has told the IRA that they must start giving up their weapons. If
they have failed to comply by May 11, then Sinn Fein, their political wing, will
be excluded from the new Northern Ireland assembly.

This is the acid test for the peace process. Is the Good Friday agreement of one
year ago a true blueprint for peace in Northern Ireland? Or is it not worth the
paper that it is printed on?

It is a gamble. The hard-core killers of the Provos will see any disarmament as
a surrender to the Brits. But it is a gamble that the Prime Minister had to
take. After endless concessions to the terrorists, including the release of more
than 250 convicted killers, it was finally time for the men of violence to make
some gesture of reconciliation.

Because if the IRA don't start decommissioning soon, then the Good Friday
agreement will collapse anyway.

DAVID Trimble's fragile coalition of Unionists will decide that they have made
all the concessions and received nothing in return.

The problem is that Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams says, as he has said all along, that
he can't deliver the hard men of the IRA.

Perhaps I am a fool, but I believe him -- just as I believe that Adams has
bravely risked a bullet in the brain to bring the Republican movement this far.

I carry no brief for either Adams or Sinn Fein. Since I was a teenager, too many
IRA bombs have exploded on the streets of my country for me to feel any sympathy
for the sentimental dreams of Republicans for a united Ireland. Any country that
blows innocent children to pieces in the name of liberation is a country that is
not worth having.

But at the same time, I can see that the Catholics in Northern Ireland were
treated like trash for years.

And I remember that the British army first marched into Ulster only because
Protestant mobs were burning innocent Catholic families out of their homes.

There are few clean hands in Ulster. If they look back far enough, everybody has
a reason to hate their neighbour.

There comes a time when the hatred either has to stop or go on forever. The
wisest words I ever heard a politician say came from Yitzhak Rabin, the late
Prime Minister of Israel, when asked how he could bear to make peace with the
Palestinians.

"You do not make peace with your friends," replied Rabin. "You make peace with
your enemies."

Yitzhak Rabin was assassinated for those words, not by one of the PLO but by one
of his fellow Israelis, a madman who believed that you can never make peace with
your enemies. And no doubt sometimes it can't be done. If the IRA refuse to give
up their weapons, then making peace with the Provos will prove to be Northern
Ireland's impossible dream.

For how can you make peace with your enemies when they want to reserve the right
to kill you and your family?

Since I have been writing for The Mirror, I have received a lot of memorable
letters from readers. But the one I remember most of all was a heartbreaking
note from a mother whose son, a young soldier, was killed while serving in
Northern Ireland.

"There is one thing you have to understand about the IRA," she wrote. "They
don't want peace. They want victory." My head tells me she is right. And my head
also tells me that there could be some kind of cynical fudge by the IRA - -
namely, a few token weapons destroyed just to keep Sinn Fein involved in the
peace process.

BUT my heart tells me that Northern Ireland surely can't return to the senseless
slaughter, the mindless bigotry and the tribal hatred of the last 30 years. Or
can it?

The delicate peace in the Province can blind us to the fact that the aspirations
of Northern Ireland's two tribes actually remain as far apart as they ever were.
The Unionists still want to remain part of the United Kingdom. The Nationalists
still want to belong to a united Ireland.

Northern Ireland's eternal tragedy has been that it was impossible for these two
very different dreams to co-exist. The Good Friday agreement tried to find a way
- and is still trying to find a way - to reconcile the aspirations of both the
Catholics and the Protestants.

If the IRA decide that they want to keep their weapons, then the current hopes
of peace and harmony between the Orange and the Green will very quickly fade and
die. But if there is no lasting peace now, then it will be literally generations
before we get this close to peace again.

More than 250 hardened killers have been set free from prison. mountains of
Semtex are sitting in safe houses. The IRA have failed to give up a pea
-shooter.

Do we have a recipe for peace? Or the makings of a bloodbath?

This Easter Monday finds Northern Ireland looking towards the past. That's what
they are good at over there. God, they are good at it.

But if the men of violence don't start looking to the future by destroying their
weapons, then the past is all that Northern Ireland will ever have.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              210 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 6, 1999, Tuesday

RELIEF FOR FAMILIES AS LOCKERBIE SUSPECTS FLY IN

BYLINE: Boris Worrall

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 322 words


Relatives of the Midland victims of the 1988 Lockerbie bombing last night spoke
of their relief as the two men accused of Britain's worst terrorist atrocity
were finally handed over for trial.

The families had endured a decade of anguish and frustration as Bromsgrove GP Dr
Jim Swire led efforts to negotiate with Libyan leader Col Muammar Gaddafi to try
to seek justice.

Dr Swire, whose 24-year-old daughter Flora was among 270 people killed when Pan
Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie in Scotland, said: "It is an enormous
relief.

"Now there is going to be a trial we also have an undertaking that there will be
an inquiry into why this could not be prevented and we can finally get at the
truth."

His campaign was among the key factors in getting the agreement, which yesterday
saw the two Libyan suspects fly to Holland where they will face trial under
Scottish law.

Mr Clayton Flick, aged 25 from Coventry, and his fiancee Miss Clare Bacciochi,
from Tamworth, also died on the flight on their way to a shopping holiday in New
York.

His mother Mrs Jean Flick, aged 65, said last night: "I feel very pleased. I did
not think it would ever happen and did not share Jim Swire's faith. He has done
such a lot to achieve this."

Mr Tony Blair said he was pleased for the families involved: "It's been over ten
years - that is a very long time for the relatives of the victims of Lockerbie
to wait.

"I have met them and found them extraordinarily courageous people who have been
very patient."

South African President Nelson Mandela hailed Col Gaddafi as a man of his word
for keeping to the handover deal he helped secure.

The suspects, Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah
finally touched down in the Netherlands yesterday afternoon.

Last night, they were formally extradited by the Dutch authorities and will now
be committed to stand trial.

Reports/Page 3

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Suspects: Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              211 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             April 6, 1999, Tuesday

NAMES OF 270 DEAD READ OUT;
 LEGAL MOVES BEGIN IN LOCKERBIE TRIAL

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 782 words


RELATIVES of the Midland victims of the 1988 Lockerbie bombing spoke of their
relief as the two men accused of Britain's worst terrorist atrocity were finally
handed over for trial.

The families had endured a decade of frustration as Bromsgrove GP Dr Jim Swire
led efforts to negotiate with Libyan leader Col Muammar Gaddafi to try to seek
justice.

Dr Swire, whose 24-year-old daughter Flora was among 270 people killed when Pan
Am Flight 103 exploded over Lockerbie, said: "It is an enormous relief.

Truth

"Now there is going to be a trial, we also have an undertaking that there will
be an inquiry into why this could not be prevented and we can finally get at the
truth."

Throughout the endless political machinations on what has been an emotional
roller-coaster ride, Dr Swire has remained resolutely optimistic and focused.

In typical style yesterday he was keen to praise the role of those like
President Nelson Mandela, who helped forge the deal, and Prime Minister Tony
Blair.

"The role of people like Mandela was so important because he bothered the Prime
Minister and anyone else he could," he said.

Dr Swire's wife Jane said: "We are very, very relieved that it has gone this
far. It is a beginning.

"Obviously, nothing can bring back the precious people that we have lost and
that still hurts.

"At least it is a good message for the world that people who are accused of
wicked crimes like this are brought to justice."

Clayton Flick, aged 25 from Coventry, and his fiancee Clare Bacciochi, from
Tamworth, also died on the flight on their way to a shopping holiday in New
York.

Clayton's mother Jean Flick, aged 65, said: "I feel very pleased. I did not
think it would ever happen and did not share Jim Swire's faith. He has done such
a lot to achieve this."

South African President Nelson Mandela hailed Col Gaddafi as a man of his word
for keeping to the handover deal he helped secure.

The suspects, Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah
finally touched down in the Netherlands yesterday afternoon.

Extradited

They were formally extradited by the Dutch authorities last night and will now
be committed to stand trial in neutral Holland. For the duration of the trial,
the military base of Camp Zeist near Utrecht will become the property of the
Scottish court.

COMMITTAL proceedings against the two Lockerbie suspects were under way in
Holland today.

Legal moves, in strict accordance with Scottish law, began on the first full day
in custody at Camp Zeist, near Utrecht, for Abdel Baset Ali al-Megrahi and
Lamine Khalifa Fhimeh.

The two men were formally arrested by Dumfries and Galloway Police when they
arrived in Holland last night.

Today the full warrant, detailing the charges against them and the names of all
270 people who died in the Lockerbie bombing, were read out at a private hearing
in a temporary court at the former air base.

The lengthy process was hampered by the need for the proceedings to be
translated for the two men, who will later make their first appearance before
Graham Cox, the Scottish Sheriff appointed to preside over the preliminary
hearings.

After the warrant was read, both men were fingerprinted, photographed and
subjected to DNA sampling - all standard procedure in any Scottish criminal
case.

Later the Sheriff was due to charge the men formally and commit them for
"further examination".

Their committal for trial is expected to take place, also behind closed doors
deep within the 100-acre camp, by next Thursday.

At that point the clock will start ticking on a 110-day deadline by which the
suspects must be brought to trial.

But it is likely that the lawyers defending the men will then request a further
delay, probably of at least six months, to enable them to prepare their cases.

Frustration

Meanwhile, relatives of the Midland victims of the 1988 bombing spoke of their
relief that the two men had been handed over for trial.

Families had endured a decade of frustration as Bromsgrove GP Dr Jim Swire led
efforts to negotiate with Libyan leader Col Gaddafi to try to seek justice.

Dr Swire, whose 24-year-old daughter Flora was killed, said: "It is an emormous
relief.

"Now there is going to be a trial. we also have an undertaking that there will
be an inquiry into why this could not be prevented and we can finally get at the
truth."

Clayton Flick, aged 25, from Coventry, and his fiancee Clare Bacciochi, from
Tamworth, also died in the flight on their way to a shopping holiday in New
York.

Clayton's mother, Jean Flick, said: "I feel very pleased. I did not think it
would ever happen."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERRORIST ATTACK: The nose of PanAm flight 103 in a field near
Lockerbie; ACCUSED: Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi ACCUSED: al-Amin Khalifa
Fhimah

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              212 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 6, 1999

Row brews as Washington investigates Elf oil deal with Iran

BYLINE: Dan Atkinson

SECTION: Guardian City Pages; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 482 words


A CLASH between Canada, France and the United States loomed yesterday as
Washington announced an investigation into the weekend deal between the French
energy group Elf Aquitaine and the Iranian government. The State Department
inquiry will take several weeks and could end in US sanctions against Elf and
its Canadian partner, Bow Valley Energy.

The contract involves the $ 300 million (A185 million) development of Iran's
Balal offshore oil field but flies in the face of America's 1996 Iran Libya
Sanctions Act (ILSA). The State Department confirmed the deal had been referred
to its ILSA office.

Should Washington decide to apply sanctions, Elf and Bow Valley assets in the US
could be subjected to penalties and US delegates to international bodies would
be instructed to block contracts or grants to both Elf and Bow Valley.

The French foreign ministry said Paris rejected the idea that ILSA could be
applied to non-US companies. 'Elf is free to sign contracts in Iran if it wants.
It's a commercial decision,' a spokesman told Reuters.

Ironically, the deal may have spared Great Britain the embarrassment of a public
fall-out with the United States at a time when both countries' forces are in
action in the former Yugoslavia. Premier Oil was originally involved with Bow
Valley in the Balal project but last month said there were difficulties
regarding contract terms.

Yesterday Premier confirmed its involvement was at an end, adding that it was
'not unduly concerned' and aimed to concentrate on projects in Burma, Pakistan
and Thailand.

Under the terms of the deal, Elf's Iranian subsidiary will operate the field and
take an 85 per cent interest. By 2001, Balal is expected to produce about 40,000
barrels a day.

This is the second big Elf deal in Iran this year. On March 1, it signed a $ 1
billion joint agreement with Italy's Agip company to develop the Doroud oil
field. Two years ago, another French energy group, Total, now Total Fina, made a
$ 2 billion gas deal with Iran, triggering a diplomatic row with Washington.
President Clinton stepped back from applying ILSA sanctions in Total's case.
Under ILSA, Washington aims to deny Iran and Libya 'revenues that could be used
to finance international terrorism' and 'limit the flow of resources necessary
to obtain weapons of mass destruction'.

A third objective is to pressure Libya into compliance with United Nations
resolutions, with special reference to the handover of the Lockerbie bombing
suspects, an objective that was achieved yesterday .

Sanctions are triggered in any deal worth more than $ 40 million 'for the
development of petroleum resources'.

Penalties can include blacklisting the offending company from being a primary
dealer in US government securities, an agent of the US government or a
repository for US government funds. There may also be import bans.


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              213 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 6, 1999

Lockerbie unlocked

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 419 words


Cook solved the insoluble

HEAVEN knows Robin Cook has not had an easy run as Foreign Secretary, but
yesterday he won a victory of which he can be justly proud. The arrival in the
Netherlands of the two Libyans suspected of staging the worst act of terrorism
in British history represented a triumph of legal and political creativity for
which Mr Cook can claim considerable credit. Now a crime that may otherwise have
gone untried and unpunished will finally be submitted to justice, and the men
and women who lost 270 loved ones over Lockerbie in December 1988 will have a
chance to close a period of mourning that has lasted too long.

When Mr Cook arrived at the FO, the hunt for Abdel Baset al-Megrahi and Lamen
Khalifa Fhimah was at an impasse. The British and US governments insisted the
two men go to court in one of those countries. The Libyans claimed they could
not get a fair hearing in Scotland or America, and feared such an event would
collapse into a show trial of the entire Gadafy regime. Mr Cook broke the
deadlock by acceding to Tripoli's demand for a trial in a third, neutral
country. That was smart politics, for it called Colonel Gadafy's bluff: if he
was sincere he would have to produce the two wanted men. It rested on a fact not
previously understood by British diplomats - that Libya was tired of eight years
of sanctions and was ready to deal. Mr Cook's move was even cannier than that,
though. He navigated around Scottish and American sensitivities by crafting the
compromise that is now about to be played out. The suspects are in Holland, but
their case will be heard by Scottish judges and their cells locked by Scottish
jailors, all on a Dutch military base temporarily converted into a patch of
Scottish soil. This piece of legal choreography - a world first - enables the
Scots to feel that no slur has been made on their legal system, and the Libyans
to feel two of their citizens shall get a fair hearing. The latter shall finally
be relieved of the burden of sanctions, the former shall get justice.

We should not underestimate the creativity of this solution. Next time we hear
politicians declare a situation intractable, we should point to the precedent
about to be set at Camp Zeist. The Americans did not solve this problem, though
they have gone along with its solution. This was a piece of diplomatic artistry
by Britain - one which Robin Cook can place alongside the lifting of the fatwa
against Salman Rushdie as a landmark achievement.

??


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 6, 1999

Lockerbie suspects surrendered to Scots

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 515 words


THE two Libyans accused of the Lockerbie bombing are to be committed for trial
in a Scottish court in the Netherlands today after Colonel Muammar Gadafy
surrendered them to the United Nations yesterday, ending punitive sanctions and
eight years of deadlock over the worst terrorist act in Britain.

Abdel Baset al-Megrahi and Al-Amin Khalifah Fhimah, wanted for murdering 270
people in the downing of Pan Am flight 103, were taken into Dutch custody after
flying from Tripoli to the Valkenberg airbase near The Hague in an
Italian-crewed UN jet. Later, the two suspects were extradited into Scottish
hands for transfer to Camp Zeist, a converted airbase near Utrecht which has
been prepared for an unprecedented British criminal trial in a third country,
expected to last months or possibly years.

As President Bill Clinton and Tony Blair hailed moves to bring the alleged
bombers to justice, the South African president, Nelson Mandela, said he had
been instrumental in persuading Colonel Gadafy to accept the offer of a trial of
two individuals that would not undermine the Libyan regime.

Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, interrupted a Ministry of Defence briefing on
Kosovo to confirm that the two suspects had taken off. 'The Government must not
get itself into a position of lobbying for a guilty verdict,' he said later.
'That would be most improper, that's entirely a matter for the courts. Scottish
judges are not going to allow a criminal trial to be turned into a political
trial.'

Both the Libyans, described as intelligence agents, deny all charges: 'We leave
of our free will,' Megrahi told Libyan television in the VIP lounge of Tripoli
airport, where Arab diplomats had gathered to witness their departure. Fhimah
flashed a V for victory sign and told officials: 'We hope to see you upon our
return.'British sources said the handover finally seemed a near certainty last
Thursday after repair work began on the runway lights at Tripoli airport, barely
used since the UN air embargo and other sanctions were imposed in 1992 to force
the surrender of the suspects.

Hans Correll, the UN's chief legal counsel, who masterminded the transfer, said
the two men were treated like normal passengers on the three-and-a-half hour
flight. They were allowed to bring one relative each both chose brothers and
were accompanied by two lawyers and three other people.

The UN, which has spent months secretly orchestrating the complex legal,
political and practical arrangements, supplied its own security officers,
including Arabic speakers who chatted with the two.

Kofi Annan, the UN secretary general, announced last night that the sanctions
had been suspended. They are expected to be lifted within 90 days, though the US
and Britain plan to keep some bilateral sanctions in place.

Mr Annan said he was confident the two suspects would receive a fair trial and
looked forward 'to the earliest possible resumption of Libya's normal relations
with the rest of the international community'.

Lockerbie handover, pages 8 9; Leader comment, page 15


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              215 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 6, 1999

How the deal was done: The arrival in Holland of the alleged bombers ends a
nerve-racking episode for the Foreign Secretary, who overcame US doubts and
Libyan suspicions to set up a no-jury trial in a neutral country Reports by Ian
Black

BYLINE: ??

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1971 words


IT IS nearly eight years since Britain and the United States launched their
efforts to secure the handover of the two Libyans wanted for the Lockerbie
bombing. But only in the last few weeks did yesterday's extraordinary drama in
the Netherlands begin to seem even a remote possibility. And it was touch and go
almost until the end.

As the cell doors slammed shut behind Lamen Khalifah Fhimah and Abdel Basset
al-Megrahi, accused of murdering 270 people in the downing of Pan Am flight 103
in December 1988, it marked the climax of an exhausting diplomatic and legal
struggle in which Britain had repeatedly to overcome US doubts as well as
persuade Colonel Muammar Gadafy to do what often seemed impossible.

It began unpromisingly, with Gadafy insisting that a trial in Libya or a third,
neutral country were the only acceptable options, because, he claimed, the two
could not expect justice in a Scottish or US court.

Gadafy has always denied responsibility for the worst act of terrorism in
British history. Bizarrely, he also seemed sometimes to imply that it was
retaliation for air strikes on Libya in 1986 when Margaret Thatcher had allowed
US planes to fly from British bases after two US servicemen died in the bombing
of a Berlin disco. 'Locker A', he called that; the deadly explosion on the
packed Boeing 747 over a sleepy Lowlands town was 'Locker B'.

Back in December 1988, the finger pointed at Iran, Syria, or radical
Palestinians and suspicions persist that other states may have been involved.
But since Fhimah and al-Megrahi were indicted in November 1991, the US and
Britain have always insisted they have a strong case.

Getting them into the dock was a different matter: United Nations sanctions
banning air travel to and from Libya and the import of spare parts for the vital
oil industry were imposed in 1992 to force the suspects' surrender and tightened
the following year.

But it became progressively harder to sustain the embargo as Libya lobbied for
support, offering cheap oil deals and bribes to impoverished fellow Africans who
disliked American and British bullying.

And with repeated crises over Iraq sapping the will of the council to enforce
sanctions, pressure mounted steadily from the Organisation of African Unity and
the Arab League to find a way out of the impasse. 'They desperately needed us to
do something,' said one official.

Just how desperately Robin Cook found in September 1997, when he made his first
speech as Foreign Secretary to the UN General Assembly, where a debate on Africa
was hijacked as speaker after speaker complained about the Libya sanctions and
the refusal of Washington and London to compromise.

And then, as Cook was on his home turf at the Commonwealth summit in Edinburgh,
Nelson Mandela, grateful for Gadafy's support in the struggle against apartheid,
used his enormous moral authority to warn Britain that it could not be
simultaneously 'complainant, prosecutor and judge' in the Lockerbie case.

Thrown on to the defensive, Cook invited UN experts to inspect the fairness and
independence of the Scottish legal system and conditions in Glasgow's Barlinnie
prison, where a special wing had been prepared for the remote eventuality that
the suspects would ever be convicted. 'Formidable obstacles' stood in the way of
a third country trial, the Foreign Secretary insisted, though, for the first
time, he was careful to 'rule nothing out'.

Something new was needed. So after Christmas, following secret discussions with
the Lord Advocate and the Scottish Office, Cook used a meeting at Chevening, his
official residence in Kent, to raise a revolutionary proposal with Madeleine
Albright, the US secretary of state: call Gadafy's bluff by giving him what he
and his supporters want - a no-jury Scottish trial on neutral ground.

The idea had been put forward in 1994 by Robert Black, professor of law at
Edinburgh university. It contradicted everything Britain and the US had ever
said about a trial. But since nothing else had worked, Cook argued, surely this
was worth a try?It was as politically risky as it was legally bold: 189 of the
Lockerbie victims were Americans and their families unlike the British relatives
generally supported their government's hardline position. The Justice Department
was opposed, but collectively the Clinton administration said yes. Yet its
doubts persisted .

Last February Britain opened talks with the US. In May they were extended to
include the Dutch, asked to host this unique trial because of their squeaky
-clean image -and their experience in hosting the International Court of Justice
and Yugoslav War Crimes Tribunal.

All the while, Libya was scoring points, with the OAU threatening to breach
sanctions and African leaders defying the UN to fly into Tripoli and bond with
Gadafy. President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, a loyal and heavily-subsidised friend
of the West, went too though with UN permission to visit the colonel after he
suffered a hip injury. 'Of course it was a scam,' muttered one diplomat, 'but
there was no way we could have opposed it'.On July 21 the Guardian broke the
story of the Netherlands trial offer. Mrs Albright convened a hasty conference
call with the stunned American relatives and President Clinton said there were
'real practical difficulties'. But Jim Swire, the tireless Bromsgrove GP who
heads UK Families Flight 103, hailed it a dramatic breakthrough.

Delays were caused by Dutch elections, the terrorist bombing of the US embassies
in Kenya and Tanzania and retaliatory air strikes against Afghanistan and Sudan
but the initiative was unveiled at the end of August. Hand over the two, Libya
was told by the UN security council, and sanctions would be suspended.

It has been a long and nerve-racking haul since then. Britain has scrutinised
every sign, checked every rumour and exploited every channel to assess whether
the Libyan leader would take the bait. At one point there were hopes that the
arrest of three of his top security and intelligence chiefs was intended to
somehow clear the way for a Lockerbie handover. But MI6 reported that they were
back at their desks within weeks. Serious discussions with Libya began last
September, via the UN's chief legal counsel, Swedish diplomat Hans Corell, one
of those understated Scandinavians who make international bureaucracies tick.
Libyan lawyers trooped up to his office on the 38th floor of UN headquarters,
seeking clarifications on legal and technical issues.

But Gadafy seemed to be wasting time, claiming to be worried that the suspects
would be kidnapped by the Americans, that sanctions might be re-imposed once
suspended, and that the whole exercise was a trick. No-one knew whether he was
serious.

Britain went to extraordinary lengths to coax him into compliance. It promised
that if convicted, the Libyans could refuse to be interviewed by police or
intelligence services and that the security chiefs responsible would not be
summoned as witnesses. 'Our objective is to do justice in terms of a trial of
two people who have been accused of mass murder,' the Foreign Secretary
signalled via a Guardian interview in October. 'We are not seeking to stage some
kind of political theatre."

By December the time seemed right for a big push. Excitement mounted as Kofi
Annan, the UN secretary general, flew to Tripoli and Hans Correll arranged for a
UN plane to stand by in Italy ready to deliver the suspects to Holland a dress
rehearsal for the real thing yesterday.

It was vintage Gadafy, capricious, eccentric and theatrical. As the world
watched, talks took place after an hour's drive across the freezing desert to a
giant Bedouin tent warmed by bonfires. 'It will require time, but not an
inordinate amount of time, to solve the problem,' Annan said afterwards.

More delay followed. Gadafy said a final decision could be taken only by the
General Peoples Congress, which gave its approval shortly after Ramadan.

In January Tony Blair, visiting South Africa, urged Mandela to stay engaged. The
president's closest aide, a publicity-shy lawyer named Jakes Gerwel, teamed up
with the Saudi Arabian ambassador to the US, Prince Bandar bin Sultan.
Co-ordinating closely with the UN, and reporting regularly to London, the
colonel's African and Arab friends were working towards the endgame.

In seven trips to Libya they managed to convince Gadafy that there was no trick;
that sanctions would not be re-imposed once suspended; that there was no hidden
agenda. Crucially, he then dropped his deal-breaking insistence that the men
could not be imprisoned in Scotland.

By now Cook was devoting more and more time to an issue that had come to
preoccupy him even during the escalating crises over Iraq and Kosovo. In mid
-February he dealt his final card: UN monitors could be permanently stationed
inside Barlinnie and a Libyan consulate opened in Glasgow. Now, he insisted,
there was nothing left to put on the table. It was up to the colonel.

Still though, agreement was poised on a knife edge: the Americans were losing
patience, worrying that the Gerwel-Bandar mission was undermining their
position. On February 26, six months after the original trial offer was made,
the US demanded the suspects be surrendered within a month, signalling that
otherwise the offer would be withdrawn and sanctions tightened. Britain insisted
this was not a deadline, but prospects looked bleak again.

Gadafy's friends kept trying. Mubarak pressed him during a visit to Cairo in
mid-March and Saudi sources reported a mention, for the first time ever, of a
date for a handover. Tantalisingly, the ever-confusing Gadafy suddenly praised
the fairness of Scottish justice and accused the US of thuggery in forcing the
UN to endorse its policies.

But that same day, a Paris court convicted in absentia six Libyans, including
Gadafy's brother-in-law and intelligence chief, Abdullah Senoussi, of the 1989
bombing of a French UTA airliner over Niger, in which 170 people had died - the
victims of a bomb placed in baggage container like at Lockerbie. Now, it seemed,
the moment had come to close both these files and bring his country in from the
cold.

Mandela provided the clinching guarantees: on March 19, the South African
president flew to Tripoli with special UN permission. Simultaneously, at the
State Department in Washington, US and British officials were scheduled to meet
- at American insistence - to declare the trial initiative dead and discuss
tougher sanctions.

Before the meeting started, CNN flashed the news from Tripoli: the Lockerbie
suspects would be surrendered on or before April 6, Mandela announced, flanked
by Gadafy and Prince Bandar. Sanctions would be suspended immediately, and
lifted within 90 days. 'It would be wrong to say that there were smug faces on
the British side,' said one Cook aide. 'We're not like that.'

It was time for Correll to put his long-prepared plan into action. Last minute
hitches seemed likely as Libya demanded a trial in a neutral country of the US
officials who ordered the bombing of Tripoli in 1986. But there were no more
obstacles, though no one really believed it until yesterday when two men stepped
off a UN plane in the Netherlands, finally facing justice.

An aerial view of Lockerbie after the crash 10 years ago which killed 259
passengers and crew and 11 residents and (below) the nose of the Pan Am flight
103 in a nearby field PHOTOGRAPHS: MARTIN CLEAVER

Robin Cook: decided to call Gadafy's bluff

Colonel Gadafy: capricious, eccentric and theatrical

Nelson Mandela yesterday: used moral authority

Jim Swire: hailed trial offer as breakthrough

Madeleine Albright: hard line position

President Mubarak: put pressure on Gadafy


LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 6, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

WE WANT THEM TO HAVE A FAIR TRIAL -;
As the two Lockerbie bomb suspects are handed over, the North mother of one of
the victims of stricken Pan Am flight 103 says:

BYLINE: By Beverley Addy

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 816 words


   THE two Lockerbie bombing suspects arrived in the Netherlands yesterday to
face trial for Britain's worst terrorist atrocity.

The two men arrived at the Valkenburg military airport in The Hague and were
then formally extradited by the Dutch authorities .

Neither of the two Libyans contested the Scottish extradition request under
which they were to be transferred to Scottish territory at the Camp Zeist
compound near Utrecht.

The Government expressed its satisfaction with the handover by the Libyan
authorities, 17 months after Foreign Secretary Robin Cook raised the idea of a
trial in a neutral country.

Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah face trial under
Scottish law, and before a panel of three Scottish judges, accused of the 1988
Pan Am bombing which killed 270 people in the air and on the ground.

A ceremony took place at Tripoli Airport yesterday morning when the two suspects
were handed over to UN representative Hans Corell.

The parents of a North man who died in the bombing welcomed the handover.

Jean Berkley, whose lecturer son Alistair was among those killed in the
explosion, said the appearance of the two men before a Scottish court on Dutch
soil would be the first step towards answering questions relatives have asked
for a decade.

Mrs Berkley, who lives at Sandhoe, near Hexham, said: "We're very pleased the
hand-over went ahead because it's taken such a long time. But we have got a long
way to go yet, and things will still take some time to come to trial.

"This is only the first step. The preparation of the defence could take up to a
year because they haven't seen the evidence yet, and of course we want to make
sure the defendants get a fair trial.

"We don't know what the outcome will be. If it turns out these two are
implicated, then I think they could be smaller players in a bigger team.

"We shall certainly keep a close eye on developments and see what unravels. We
think the trial will leave a lot of unanswered issues, but are very pleased to
see things moving - who knows what might come to light. There are tales of a
defector in the United States who is saying all sorts of things about
Lockerbie."

She added: "For years we were rather being brushed off as hysterical relatives
of a disaster, who couldn't come to terms with what had happened.

"We don't think in terms of vengeance but want to see some light thrown on what
is a very complicated situation. Truth and justice is our objective."

Mrs Berkley praised Foreign Secretary Robin Cook and South African President
Nelson Mandela for breaking the years of diplomatic deadlock with Libya over the
two bombing suspects.

She said recent meetings with Mr Cook and Tony Blair led UK families to believe
that a public inquiry would follow the trial.

The recent tenth anniversary of the bombing had brought many of the families
together, Mrs Berkley said, and strengthened the resolve to see the matter
through.

Libyan state television showed the men, wearing suits and looking relaxed,
shaking hands with foreign diplomats and dignitaries, before boarding a UN
plane.

"We are confident in ourselves. The days will prove that what we are saying is
true," said Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi.

His 42-year-old fellow suspect flashed a V for victory sign and told diplomats:
"We hope to see you upon our return."

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook interrupted a Ministry of Defence briefing on the
Kosovo crisis to confirm that the two suspects had taken off from Libya.

At a news conference later at the Foreign Office, he said: "I have always
stressed if the two men are innocent they have nothing to fear from Scottish
justice."

He insisted the three experienced Scottish judges would stop the hearing
becoming a "show trial" of the Libyan regime.

"Scottish judges are not going to allow a criminal trial to be turned into a
political trial.

"It's not a political show trial."

But he said he would expect the Tripoli government to pay compensation to
relatives of the victims if the two men were convicted and found to have been
working for the Libyan government. The Prime Minister yesterday paid tribute to
the relatives of the victims.

Speaking at Chequers, Tony Blair said: "It's been over 10 years - that is a very
long time for the relatives of the victims of Lockerbie to wait.

"I have met them and found them extraordinarily courageous people who have been
very patient. It is a marvellous thing to know that this trial is now going to
happen."

Jane Swire, whose daughter Flora died in the bombing, spoke of her relief at the
news of the handover. She said: "We are very, very relieved that it has gone
this far. It is a beginning."

The United Nations announced that sanctions imposed on Libya had been
automatically suspended with the arrival of the men in Holland.

Comment: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hand over: One of the accused men, front, waves as he stands in front
of his co-accused as they board an aircraft in Tripoli to take them to the
Netherlands for trial.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              217 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 6, 1999

JUSTICE FOR LOCKERBIE;
 After 11 years Libyan terror suspects face court

BYLINE: Geoff Meade

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 689 words


FAMILIES of the Lockerbie bombing victims saw their eleven-year battle for
justice pay off last night as the two suspects were flown from Libya to face
trial.

The pair are accused of Britain's worst ever terrorist atrocity - the 1988 Pan
Am bombing which killed 270 people.

In a triumph of international cooperation the men were flown to an army camp in
the Netherlands where a Scottish court will be specially set up to hear the case
against them.

The two suspects were in defiant mood earlier as they boarded their plane in
Tripoli, flashing V for victory signs and vowing to clear their names.

The Government yesterday expressed its satisfaction with the handover by the
Libyan authorities 17 months after Foreign Secretary Robin Cook raised the idea
of a trial in a neutral country.

And Jane Swire, whose daughter Flora died in the bombing, spoke of her relief at
the news.

She said: ''We are very, very relieved that it has gone this far. It is a
beginning.

''At least this is a good message for the world. People who are accused of
wicked crimes like this are brought to justice.''

The Prime Minister yesterday paid tribute to the relatives of the victims.

Speaking at Chequers, Tony Blair said: ''It's been over ten years - that is a
very long time for the relatives of the victims of Lockerbie to wait.

''I have met them and found them extraordinarily courageous people who have been
very patient.''

Tam Dalyell, Labour MP for Linlithgow and outspoken Lockerbie campaigner, said:
''Many experienced people were resigned to the fact that this day would never
come and had it not been for the persistence and remarkable cohesion of the
families it would not have come.''

Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi and al-Amin Khalifa Fhimah face trial under
Scottish law and before a panel of three Scottish judges.

A ceremony took place at Tripoli airport yesterday morning when the two suspects
were handed over to UN representative Hans Corell.

Libyan state television showed the men, wearing suits and looking relaxed,
shaking hands with foreign diplomats and dignitaries, before boarding a UN
plane.

''We are confident in ourselves. The days will prove that what we are saying is
true,'' said Abdel Baset Ali Mohamed al-Megrahi.

His 42-year-old fellow suspect flashed a V for victory sign and told diplomats:
''We hope to see you upon our return.''

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said: ''I have always stressed if the two men are
innocent they have nothing to fear from Scottish justice.''

He insisted the three experienced Scottish judges would stop the hearing
becoming a ''show trial'' of the Libyan regime.

''Scottish judges are not going to allow a criminal trial to be turned into a
political trial.

''It's not a political show trial.''

But he said he would expect the Tripoli government to pay compensation to
relatives of the victims if the two men were convicted and found to have been
working for the Libyan government.

The handover meant that sanctions against Libya would be lifted and Mr Cook said
they would not be re-imposed if the men were found guilty.

Sheriff Graham Cox QC, Sheriff Principal of South Strathclyde, Dumfries and
Galloway, was expected to fly to The Netherlands from Scotland last night.

His task is to commit the pair for trial.

That committal hearing, which will be swift, will take place in private,
witnessed by UN observers.

The two suspects will be placed in Scottish custody, ready for a trial at Camp
Zeist, the former military base which will be Scottish territory until after the
trial.

While two members of the prosecution team arrived in Amsterdam on Sunday to
prepare for the arrival of the Libyans, more than 100 Scottish police and prison
officers are already in place at Camp Zeist.

Gordon Smith, who was manager of the Lockerbie Trust Fund, said: ''Personally,
I'm pleased for the families because they have fought long and hard for this
day. I do not think the trial will close the book - this is just another
chapter.

''The two Libyans are simply the fall guys - they're just two small fish in a
big pond.''


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              218 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 April 8, 1999

Mardi Gra bomber's TV terror plot

BYLINE: Cameron Simpson

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 472 words


THE Mardi Gra bomber was finally unmasked yesterday as a 61-year-old man from
Chiswick who hatched the plot for his campaign of terror and extortion after
watching a television programme about a blackmail scheme by a crooked former
detective.

At the Old Bailey yesterday, Edgar Pearce admitted 20 charges, including
blackmail attempts on Barclays Bank and Sainsbury's supermarket.

Pearce called himself Mardi Gra because in French it meant ''Fat Tuesday", the
day he first sent his demands which spiralled as he tried to hold two of
Britain's biggest companies to ransom for up to £3.6m a year. However, he made
only slim pickings: £700 on the day he was arrested.

His blackmail campaign started in December 1994 when he sent a home-made bomb
covered in paper containing a picture of a scene from Reservoir Dogs and
labelled "Welcome to the Mardi Gra Experience" to a branch of Barclays.

During a campaign which was to last three and a half years, he left 36 explosive
devices across southern England. However, detectives said his greed finally
brought him down.

Pearce switched his attentions to Sainsbury after he failed to get any money
from the bank. He was finally arrested with his brother Ronald after a huge
police operation when he visited a cash machine to try to draw out money.

Pearce had negotiated with an undercover police officer acting as a
representative of Barclays and Sainsbury through the personal columns of the
Daily Telegraph.

He had demanded both companies produce plastic giveaway cards in publications.
These could be used with a Pin number only he knew to pay out £1000 or £2000 a
day without time limit.

But despite his attempts at eluding police with a disguise, going along with his
brother and drawing out amounts of £100 and £250 at various cash points in west
London, he was still caught.

At his home in Cambridge Road North, Chiswick, west London, that he shared with
three lodgers who were unaware of his secret life, police found "literally
hundreds" of pieces of evidence.

Ten different types of devices had been made up by Pearce. They consisted mainly
of gun cartridges containing hundreds of ball bearings set to explode when their
video cassette housing were opened. Other devices were more lethal with shrapnel
placed in copper piping or concrete blocks.

The worst injury had been caused to athlete Curtis Dennis near a Sainsbury's
store in London. He received thigh injuries and gave up his sporting ambitions.

Charges against Ronald Pearce were dropped after it was accepted he had played
no part in the blackmail campaigns. But he was jailed for 12 months, the amount
of time he has been in custody on remand, after he pleaded guilty to possessing
a stun gun.

Edgar Pearce is due to be sentenced next week.

Plot from TV Page 5

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              219 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 9, 1999, Friday

SIX REPUBLICAN PRISONERS ARE TO BE FREED UNDER GOOD FRIDAY AGREEMENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 376 words


SIX Republican prisoners - including the IRA's Balcombe Street gang, jailed in
London in 1975 - are to be freed from jail in the Irish Republic under the terms
of the Good Friday Ulster peace accord.

The four men all received multiple-life sentences in their part in a two-year
British-based terrorist bombing campaign of the early 1970s and were transferred
to Ireland last year after serving 23 years in British jails.

Their release has been authorised by Irish Justice Minister John O'Donoghue as
the latest part of a confidence-building step in the Northern Ireland peace
process.

The two other men involved in the move are Dubliner John Kinsella, serving a
16-year sentence in connection with a bomb attack in Warrington, and Irish
-American Liam Quinn, jailed for life in 1987 for the murder of a British
policeman.

They were also returned to Irish jails under the terms of a repatriation of
prisoners agreement between Britain and Ireland.

Mr O'Donoghue gave the go-ahead for the freeing of all six men after receiving a
report from the Irish government's Release of Prisoners' Commission.

The development means that only a relative handful of IRA personnel are now left
in the Irish Republic's high-security Portlaoise jail, 50 miles west of Dublin.

Dozens of other terrorists have been allowed to leave the prison ahead of
completing their sentences since the start of the peace process.

The most recent previous group to go, shortly before last Christmas, included
men convicted of the murders of police officers in the Irish Republic.

Mr O'Donoghue then contacted the families of the victims to explain the reasons
for his decision.

The Balcombe Street four - who were arrested after a five-day-long siege in
London, during which they held a couple hostage - include Hugh Doherty, a
brother of Pat Doherty, a leading and influential Sinn Fein figure.

Last May, just a week after being sent back to Ireland, the four men - Doherty,
Martin O'Connell, Harry Duggan and Edward Butler - were controversially
permitted a one-day release from Portlaoise to attend a special Sinn Fein
conference called to consider the Good Friday agreement.

They entered the conference haul to a storm of cheering from

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              220 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 9, 1999, Friday Edition 1

Terrorists are to be freed

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 101 words


   Six Republican prisoners - including the IRA's Balcombe Street gang, jailed
in London in 1975 - are to be freed from jail in the Irish Republic under the
Good Friday Ulster peace accord.

The four men all received multiple life sentences in their part in a two-year
British-based terrorist bombing campaign of the 1970s and were transferred to
Ireland last year after 23 years in British jails.

The two others involved are Dubliner John Kinsella, serving a 16-year sentence
for a bomb attack in Warrington, and Irish-American Liam Quinn, jailed in 1987
for the murder of a British policeman.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              221 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 9, 1999, Friday Edition 3

Balcombe Street gang to be freed under agreement

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 320 words


   Six Republican prisoners - including the IRA's Balcombe Street gang, jailed
in London in 1975 - are to be freed from jail in the Irish Republic under the
terms of the Good Friday Ulster peace accord.

The four men all received multiple-life sentences in their part in a two-year
British-based terrorist bombing campaign of the early 1970s and were transferred
to Ireland last year after serving 23 years in British jails.

Their release has been authorised by Irish Justice Minister John O'Donoghue as
the latest part of a confidence-building step in the Northern Ireland peace
process.

The two other men involved in the move are Dubliner John Kinsella, serving a 16
year sentence in connection with a bomb attack in Warrington, and Irish-American
Liam Quinn, jailed for life in 1987 for the murder of a British policeman.

They were also returned to Irish jails under the terms of a repatriation of
prisoners agreement between Britain and Ireland.

Mr O'Donoghue gave the go ahead for the freeing of all six men after receiving a
report from the Irish government's Release of Prisoners' Commission.

The development means that only a relative handful of IRA personnel are now left
in the Irish Republic's high-security Portlaoise jail, 50 miles west of Dublin.

Dozens of other terrorists have been allowed to leave the prison ahead of
completing their sentences since the start of the peace process.

The most recent previous group to go, shortly before last Christmas, included
men convicted of the murders of police officers in the Irish Republic.

Mr O'Donoghue then contacted the families of the victims to explain the reasons
for his decision.

The Balcombe Street four - who were arrested after a five-day-long siege in
London, during which they held a couple hostage - include Hugh Doherty, a
brother of Pat Doherty, a leading and influential figure within the IRA's Sinn
Fein allies.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              222 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            April 10, 1999, Saturday

POLICE ATTACK KILLER'S RELEASE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 489 words


A BRITISH police group protested last night at the Irish government's early
release from jail of an IRA police killer.

Irish American Liam Quinn walked out of the high-security Portlaoise prison
after his release had been authorised - together with the IRA's Balcombe Street
gang bombers and one other terrorist - in a bid to boost the Northern Ireland
peace process.

Quinn, 51, was jailed for life in 1988, after being extradited from the United
States, for shooting dead PC Stephen Tibble in Hammersmith, west London, 13
years earlier.

Fred Broughton, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said:
"Life should mean life for anyone convicted of killing a police officer.

"We understand the sensitivity of the current political climate and the need for
peace - but this early release is a step too far."

Mr Broughton's angry reaction matched that of Irish police representative
organisations last year, when Dublin Justice Minister John O'Donoghue ordered
the freeing of police killers convicted in the republic.

But Irish government sources tonight insisted the move to release Quinn and five
other men jailed for IRA activities was justified as part of their continuing
efforts to encourage the faltering bid for long-term peace in Northern Ireland.

Jailed IRA personnel in both Britain and Ireland have been seen as crucial to
the declaring of the two IRA ceasefires. Last year the Balcombe Street four,
back in Irish custody just a week after being returned from jails in Britain,
were controversially allowed temporary parole to be at a Sinn Fein conference.

The meeting was vital as Sinn Fein went on to urge referendum approval for the
Good Friday agreement.

The entry of the bombers into the conference hall sparked a frenzy of cheering
by Sinn Fein delegates - with instant criticism and charges of triumphalism from
furious Ulster Unionists.

It was not clear tonight whether the men, now set for freedom on a permanent
basis, would join the internal republican movement debate over decommissioning
IRA and other terrorist arms, the issue that is continuing to block advances in
the Northern Ireland peace process.

However, at least one of the Balcombe Street gang is known to have been a critic
of the breaking of the first IRA ceasefire, in 1996.

At the time, Martin O'Connell wrote from jail to Sinn Fein's An Phoblacht
newspaper, declaring the IRA move to be "the most stupid, blinkered and ill
-conceived decision ever made by a revolutionary body".

l Quinn and Dubliner John Kinsella, 55, jailed for his part in the IRA bombing
of a gas works in Warrington, Cheshire seven years ago, were the only two of the
six men to have been released tonight.

The Balcombe Street group are currently on Easter parole, and are not due to
return to Portlaoise - for the signing of bonds formalising their departure -
until next week.

end

09-Apr-99 16: 58

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              223 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 10, 1999, Saturday

ANGER AS IRISH FREE KILLER OF LONDON PC

BYLINE: Chris Parkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 379 words


A British police group protested last night at the Irish government's early
release from jail of an IRA police killer.

Irish American Liam Quinn walked out of the high-security Portlaoise prison
after his freeing had been authorised - together with the IRA's Balcombe Street
gang bombers and one other terrorist - in a bid to boost the Northern Ireland
peace process.

Quinn (51) was jailed for life in 1988, after being extradited from the United
States, for shooting dead Pc Stephen Tibble in Hammersmith, West London, 13
years earlier.

He was repatriated to a jail in the Irish Republic soon afterwards.

The murdered constable was shot twice by Quinn, a bomb-maker associated with the
four men convicted after the Balcombe Street siege around the same period.

Mr Fred Broughton, chairman of the Police Federation of England and Wales, said:
"Life should mean life for anyone convicted of killing a police officer.

"Anything else is outrageous and shows how cheap life is. This early release
does not act as a deterrent for anyone who considers murdering a police officer.

"We understand the sensitivity of the current political climate and the need for
peace - but this early release is a step too far."

Mr Broughton's angry reaction matched that of Irish police representative
organisations last year, when Dublin Justice Minister Mr John O'Donoghue ordered
the freeing of police killers convicted in the republic.

But Irish government sources last night insisted the move to release Quinn and
five other men jailed for IRA activities was justified as part of their
continuing efforts to encourage the faltering bid for long-term peace in
Northern Ireland.

Last year the Balcombe Street four, back in Irish custody just a week after
being returned from jails in Britain, were controversially allowed temporary
parole to be at a Sinn Fein conference.

Quinn and Dubliner John Kinsella (55), jailed for his part in the IRA bombing of
a gas works in Warrington, Cheshire, seven years ago, were the only two of the
six men to have been released last night.

The Balcombe Street group are currently on Easter parole, and are not due to
return to Portlaoise - for the signing of bonds formalising their departure -
until next week.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              224 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 13, 1999

Britain and Iran revive diplomatic relations

BYLINE: IAN BLACK DIPLOMATIC EDITOR

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 592 words


BRITAIN and Iran are to normalise their diplomatic relations fully by appointing
ambassadors in each other's capitals, formally ending the long row caused by the
Salman Rushdie affair, the Guardian has learned.

Simultaneous announcements are expected in London and Tehran in the next few
days. The two countries are forging ahead of reviving political and economic
relations at a time when European countries are scrambling for lucrative
contacts in Iran.

Nick Browne, Britain's charge d'affaires in Tehran, and Gholamreza Ansari, his
opposite number in London, are to be promoted to ambassadors, as agreed by the
two countries when the Iranian government formally dissociated itself in
September from the death decree, or fatwa, issued 10 years ago against Salman
Rushdie.

Iran's late leader, Ayatollah Khomeini, called for the British writer to be put
to death over passages deemed blasphemous in his novel The Satanic Verses.

The seal on the improved relationship will be set in June when Derek Fatchett,
the Foreign Office Minister for the Middle East, flies to Tehran, the first
visit by a British minister since the Islamic revolution in 1979.

Mr Browne, a Farsi speaker on his second tour of duty in Tehran, was the obvious
British candidate - despite having been criticised by hardliners for his
contacts with Iranians during his previous job as head of the Foreign Office's
Middle East Department.

Mr Ansari's appointment is understood to have been decided only after a lengthy
internal row typical of the factional jostling for power and influence in Iran
under President Mohammed Khatami's reformist regime.

Britain has been working since mid-1997 to improve relations with Tehran. But
real progress came only with agreement on the Rushdie case at September's United
Nations meeting between Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, and the Iranian
foreign minister, Kamal Kharrazi.

Since then Britain has praised Iran for its role over Afghanistan and Tajikistan
and for moderating its hardline stance on the Arab-Israeli peace process. But
Tehran's nuclear ambitions remain a concern.

Last month Britain said it was lifting a ban on exporting military and security
equipment and on supplying Iran with bullet-proof vests to help border guards
combat drug smuggling from Afghanistan.

Britain has also condemned terrorist attacks on Iran by Iraqi-backed mojahedin
and, controversially, cracked down on fundraising by Iranian opposition groups.
The groups have called this 'appeasement' of the clerical regime.

British officials are also encouraged by the way the fatwa's anniversary in
February passed quietly and by the results of local elections that showed
further gains for the moderate and reformist camp.

The Foreign Office dismisses suggestions that the Cook deal was badly flawed and
that Rushdie was sacrificed to businesses desperate for Iranian oil and gas
contracts.

Although Mr Rushdie is still living under guard, the agreement succeeded
politically by removing the single biggest obstacle to improving Anglo-Iranian
relations.

The United States has kept its trade sanctions on Iran. It says Tehran still is
not conforming to 'acceptable standards of international behaviour', despite
improvements since Mr Khatami's election.

The Clinton administration recently reported that 'despite some signs that the
Iranian government wants to im- prove its standing in the international
community, Iran continues to pursue policies that threaten the interests of the
United States'.


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              225 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 1999, Monday

BRIXTON BOMBING: CRAZY LONER WITH RACIST MOTIVE IS SUSPECTED

BYLINE: Paul Lashmar And Ian Burrell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 837 words


SUSPICION WAS growing last night that the Brixton bomb was the act of a lone
fanatic rather than an organised terrorist group. With Scotland Yard still not
having received any claim of responsibility for Saturday's explosion in south
London, speculation was also mounting on the streets of Brixton last night that
it was a deliberate attack on the heart of Britain's black community.

As the Metropolitan Police insisted they were keeping "all avenues" of inquiry
open, sources suggested that the police did not believe it was the work of an
extreme right-wing group such as Combat 18. Gerry Gable, the publisher of the
anti-fascist magazine Searchlight agreed. "This is a horrific act. If this turns
out to have a racist basis we do not believe it will an organised group but a
crazy individual," he said.

Mr Gable, whose organisation monitors racist activity in Britain, says that the
extreme-right groups are in disarray at the moment in the wake of the inquiry
into the murder of the black teenager Stephen Lawrence. "Perhaps it some lone
extremist who has sat at home watching the news and seen the sympathy for the
Lawrence family and has got angry," he said.

However, Brixton-based black rights campaigner Lee Jasper said the bomb could
have been the work of a racially motivated far-right group. Brixton has a high
proportion of ethnic minority residents and is well-known as a centre of black
culture and the scene of race riots in the Eighties.

Mr Jasper said: "What we could potentially be witnessing is a backlash against
the huge amount of coverage given to the Stephen Lawrence case. A nail bomb in
the Brixton market could only be intended to inflict the maximum damage possible
to the black community."

Mr Gable was himself was the target of letter-bomb attack by right-wingers
nearly five years ago. The device was sent to his home but he became suspicious
of the package and called in the bomb squad who defused it.

In 1995, Combat 18 - which gets its name from the initials of Adolf Hitler -
were behind a plot to send parcel bombs to sports stars in mixed- race
relationships. A key figure in the British terrorist group ordered Danish neo
-Nazis to post bombs to figures, including swimmer Sharron Davies and boxers
Frank Bruno and Kriss Akabusi. Three Danes were later jailed for the plot.

Neither would the Brixton bomb be the first time the extreme right have
manufactured a nail bomb. The British National Party leader, Anthony Lecomber,
was jailed for manufacturing a nail bomb. In 1985 he was on his way to plant the
device outside the left-wing Workers Revolutionary Party headquarters in
Clapham, south London, when it went off prematurely.

It certainly would not be hard for a single fanatic to make a nail bomb.
Instructions for bomb-making have appeared in anarchist and survivalist manuals
and on the Internet. The Nebraska-based national socialist organisation of Gary
Lauck was suspected in the mid Nineties of mailing out a computer disc called
"Endsieg" (Final Victory) to sympathisers which contained bomb-making
instructions.

The Home Office minister Kate Hoey moved to play down the idea of a race motive
in this weekend's attack. Ms Hoey, whose Vauxhall constituency is near the scene
of the bombing, said: "I would not want to rule anything out but I would be very
surprised if there is any kind of racist motive in it."

Scotland Yard has already ruled out the involvement of Northern Ireland
paramilitary groups. Commander Hugh Orde, Metropolitan Police head of crime for
south-west London, said he was otherwise looking at "all avenues". "Clearly the
person who set this off is disturbed and has no regard for human life," he said.

Another possible theory is that the bomb was to be used in a dispute involving
Yardie gangsters, who have been implicated in a recent series of shootings and
murders in the area. The Jamaican gangs are notorious for gun crime and extreme
violence, usually associated with the drugs trade. Although the feuds are
becomingly increasingly violent, murders are most commonly shootings.

Some observers believe that the crude device was the work of a lone bomber with
a grudge. In 1989, science student Matthew Williams was jailed for attempting to
use a nail bomb to bring carnage to a Liverpool shopping street simply because
he "hated people".

The Brixton bombing also occurred in the same week that the Mardi Gra
blackmailer, Edward Pierce, who had set off explosive devices at supermarkets
and shopping precincts across London, was jailed for 21 years.

But James Wyllie, an international security expert at the University of
Aberdeen, said the bomber was almost certain to have had a political motive and
the most likely explanation was that the attack was linked to the Nato action in
the Balkans. He said: "The nature of Serbian resistance is such that sooner or
later, there will be signs of Serbian discontent running right through Europe
the same as we have seen with the Palestinians."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: One of the wounded limping away after the nail bomb explosion in
Brixton on; Saturday Peter Macdiarmid

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              226 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 1999, Monday

BRIXTON BOMBING: NAIL BOMB HORRORS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 96 words


BRITAIN'S WORST nail-bomb atrocity was the IRA attack on the Household Cavalry
in London's Hyde Park, which left four soldiers and seven horses dead. The bomb,
containing 25lb (11kg) of gelignite surrounded by four- and six-inch nails and
hidden in a car, was detonated by remote control on 20 July 1982.

Two hours later an explosion at a Regent's Park bandstand killed seven more
soldiers.

Three years ago, at the Atlanta Olympics, a nail device killed a woman and
wounded 110 others.

In 1996, two died and 80 were hurt when one went off on a Paris train.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              227 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 19, 1999, Monday

BRIXTON BOMBING: HORROR OF THE NAIL BOMB

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 187 words


THOUGH THE nail bomb has been used fairly regularly by terrorist groups and
individuals overseas, cases on the British mainland have been rare.

A vicious device, designed to inflict maximum personal injury rather than damage
to property, it is at at its most potent against crowds. Britain's worst
atrocity remains the IRA's attack on the Household Cavalry in London's Hyde
Park, which left four soldiers and seven horses dead. The bomb, containing 25lb
(11kg) of gelignite surrounded by four- and six-inch nails and hidden in a car,
was detonated by remote control as a squad of 16 rode past on 20 July, 1982. Two
hours later an explosion at a Regent's Park bandstand killed seven more
soldiers.

Three years ago, at the Atlanta Olympics, a nail device killed one woman,
wounded 110 others and caused the fatal heart attack of a television cameraman.

Paris has been hit by repeated nail-bombings. In December 1996, two people died
and 80 were injured when a device went off on a train. Two similar devices
injured a total of 30 people in 1995. Islamic extremist groups were blamed
forthe French attacks.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              228 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 20, 1999

Splinter group that found the BNP too soft;
Combat 18 Scepticism from left and right greets neo-nazi band's boast of bomb
attack after its years of internecine infighting

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 595 words


Nick Hopkins

IF Combat 18 were responsible for the Brixton bombing on Saturday, it would mark
a terrifying escalation of extreme rightwing activity at a time when neo -nazi
groups were thought to be in turmoil.

Combat 18 is supposed to be in transition following the arrest and conviction of
several key members.

But few experts doubt that its supporters there are still about 200 in Britain
are capable of such an attack, and detectives will now be concerned that rogue
members, frustrated by its ineffectiveness, may be waging a horrific new
campaign.

The British National party, however, said yesterday it was 'very sceptical' that
Combat 18 was involved in the bombing, adding that the claim of responsibility
was a piece of 'opportunism'.

'They are too busy killing themselves at the moment,' said a spokesman.'They
have been pretty inactive for a long time now and nail bombs are not their kind
of thing.'

Searchlight, the anti-fascist magazine which investigates extreme rightwing
groups, was also cautious about the caller's claim.

Its publisher, Gerry Gable, said that if the bombing was a racial attack it was
probably the work of an individual rather than the group.

'Combat 18 has the capability to do this. But they are so well marked by the
authorities that if the organisation was planning this then someone would have
heard about it. It is more likely that a rogue member has gone out and done this
on his own.'

However, Combat 18, which was first identified in 1992 when it broke away from
the British National party, considering it 'too soft", is thought to have been
behind numerous racial attacks and has tried to use letter bombs to intimidate
intended victims. Two years ago a plot to send parcel bombs to sports stars in
mixed-race marriages was uncovered.

The group, which pursues an extreme Nazi idelogy using a swastika-like symbol as
a badge of honour, has used football terraces as a recruiting ground. In
February 1995 it was behind the riot at Lansdowne Road, Dublin, which caused an
Ireland versus England friendly to be abandoned. The hooligans threw seats and
planks of wood and raised Nazi salutes.

Combat 18 is also thought to have close links with Irish terrorists and is
alleged to have smuggled arms to Protestant paramilitaries.

The organisation, though, has been rocked by defections and arrests in the past
two years.

In September 1997, Mark Atkinson, a London dustman, was jailed for 21 months for
possessing hundreds of copies of the Combat 18 magazine Stormer, which preaches
violence and death towards blacks, Jews and leftwingers.

Shortly after his conviction, three Combat 18 sympathisers were jailed in a
Danish court for attempting to send letter bombs to Britain.

In January 1998, Paul Sargent, a former Combat 18 leader, and Martin Cross, a
fellow member, were jailed for life for the murder of another fringe member,
Christopher Castle, who was stabbed in February 1997.

He was killed in a power struggle for the lucrative 'white power' music scene.

In a further blow to the group, members who were in the armed services have been
exposed this year; a soldier in the Parachute Regiment was dismissed after being
arrested in connection with his alleged involvement, and six soldiers from other
regiments were questioned.

This followed raids by Special Branch officers when computer disks, racist
literature, weapons and ammunition were seized.

The discovery prompted armed forces chiefs to issue a warning to soldiers
against racist behaviour.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              229 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 20, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

'Combat 18' claim on nail bomb attack - Mystery call after blast injures 39

BYLINE:  By Paul Peachey

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 467 words


   AMAN claiming to be from right-wing terror group Combat 18 yesterday said it
carried out the Brixton nail-bombing that injured 39 people, police said.

Officers received an anonymous 999 call at 6.06am from a telephone box on Well
Hall Road, Eltham, south east London - a few hundred yards from where black
teenager Stephen Lawrence was murdered by racist thugs in April 1993.

Scotland Yard detectives said they could not rule out the phone call being a
hoax.

Speaking at a news conference at New Scotland Yard, Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Alan Fry, the head of the Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist
branch SO13, said: "This line of inquiry is being taken very seriously but there
is absolutely no evidence and there is no intelligence at this time to support
this claim. I can only reiterate to the public that no motive has been ruled out
at this time of the investigation."

The briefing was given a shortened version of the warning in which the caller
made an error saying the bomb had gone off "yesterday" instead of Saturday.

Mr Fry said that detectives were studying closed circuit-television footage
taken both at Well Hall Road and at the blast site at Brixton, south London.

A number of people were seen moving a black Head sports bag containing the bomb
in the moments running up to the explosion outside an Iceland store in Electric
Avenue.

But he said the analysis was a long process and refused to be drawn on any
possible suspects that had been identified in the video footage.

The bomb, which was first placed next to a bus stop at about 5pm before
exploding about 30 minutes later, contained between six and 10lbs of nails, Mr
Fry said.

He asked for information from anyone who may have seen someone buying a large
quantity of nails or the bag before the explosion.

COMBAT 18 is one of Britain's most notorious and feared Neo-Nazi groups.

The organisation was formed in 1992 by disaffected members of the British
National Party and the National Front who believed their own organisations were
becoming too soft.

It takes its name from the position in the alphabet of the initials of the
group's hero Adolf Hitler. It uses a swastika-like symbol as a badge of honour.

C18 thrives in a sinister atmosphere of organised intimidation and hatred.

By the end of 1993 it had established itself as the most notorious and dominant
street-fighting force among Britain's right- wing groups.

It has grown in numbers by recruiting new members from football hooligans across
the country.

C18 is known to have close links with Irish terrorists and is alleged to have
smuggled arms to Protestant paramilitaries.

In February 1995 the group organised a soccer riot in Dublin which caused an
Ireland versus England friendly match to be abandoned.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              230 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 1999, Tuesday

LUCKY LAD;
 TODDLER'S MIRACLE ESCAPE AS COMBAT 18 CLAIM BOMB

BYLINE: Charlie Bain And Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 11

LENGTH: 405 words


THIS shocking X-ray shows a four-inch nail embedded in the brain of a toddler
injured in the Brixton bomb blast.

Amazingly, the 23-month boy was in high spirits yesterday after the spike was
removed - and is expected to make a full recovery. A surgeon said: "He's a very
lucky lad." The X-ray was released as it was revealed Combat 18 neo-Nazis had
claimed responsibility for the blast, which put 39 in hospital.

A man saying he represented the group called police from a phone box yards from
where black teenager Stephen Lawrence was murdered by racists in 1993. Police
were treating the claim seriously, but said it could be a hoax.

The toddler's skull was pierced an inch to the side of his left eye when the
vicious bomb containing 8lbs of nails blasted South London's Brixton market on
Saturday.

But though the nail penetrated two centimetres into the brain, the area was not
vital and no major functions were affected.

An inch to the left or right and the boy, who has not been named, could have
been brain damaged or killed.

He underwent a 90-minute op to remove the nail at Great Ormond Street Hospital
early on Sunday. Yesterday, he was charging about his ward, even playing
football with a nurse.

Surgeon Dominic Thompson said: "I'm extremely gratified by his progress and
believe he'll continue to improve." The alleged Combat 18 call was made at
6.06am yesterday when a man dialled 999 from a public phone in Well Hall Road,
Eltham, South London.

He said: "This is Combat 18. We claim responsibility for yesterday's bomb." The
blast was, in fact, two days earlier. Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of
Scotland Yard's anti terrorist squad, said: "This is being taken very seriously.

"But there is no evidence or intelligence at this time to support this claim. It
may have been a hoax. We have not ruled out any motive.

"I can't ignore the possibility we have sick people who pinpointed an area
perceived to be a large black community." Brixton has one of Britain's largest
black populations.

Detectives are now studying close-circuit TV footage taken at Well Hall Road as
well as at Brixton market. The bomber is believed to be a lone blond-haired man.

Fifteen victims were still in hospital last night. It is feared two may lose
their sight.

Irish and Balkan terrorism have been ruled out. Privately, many senior police
believe the blast was a racial attack.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORRIFIC: X-ray reveals nail piercing the toddler's brain but leaving
vital functions unscathed - yesterday, the youngster played happily in hospital

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              231 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 1999, Tuesday

IRA BOMB WARNING

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


GERRY Adams warned yesterday that IRA bombers could return to mainland Britain
as the Ulster peace drive sank deeper into crisis.

Sinn Fein's leader spoke out as Tony Blair and Irish PM Bertie Ahern's latest
bid to break the deadlock failed. He said: "What happened in Brixton used to
happen often."

London and Dublin insist the IRA has to give up some weapons before Sinn Fein
can join the Northern Ireland Assembly's ruling body.

But the Provos refuse and Sinn Fein accuses the governments of trying to rewrite
the Good Friday agreement.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              232 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 1999, Tuesday

ADAMS IN BOMB WARNING

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words


GERRY Adams yesterday warned IRA bombers could return to mainland Britain as the
peace drive sank deeper into crisis.

Sinn Fein's leader spoke out as Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern's latest attempt to
break the deadlock failed.

He said: "I watched what happened in Brixton on Saturday. It used to happen
quite often."

London and Dublin insist the IRA has to give up some weapons before Sinn Fein
can join the new Northern Ireland Assembly's ruling body.

Mr Adams yesterday warned Unionists that, without compromise, the peace deal
would be "as good as dead".Mr Blair and Mr Ahern announced new negotiations next
week after five hours of talks yesterday.

Mr Ahern insisted both the Unionists and Sinn Fein had to give ground.

"I don't expect either side to lose all but neither do I expect either side to
win all.

"I am not asking either side to concede totally their position."

Meanwhile, loyalist terrorists were challenged to put pressure on the IRA by
starting to hand over their own guns.

First Minister David Trimble said: "If the loyalist paramilitaries were at this
stage to make a move it would isolate those elements within republicanism that
are unable to move forward."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              233 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 20, 1999, Tuesday

ADAMS IN NEW BOMB WARNING;
 SF LEADER'S VEILED THREAT AS TALKS DEADLOCK CONTINUES

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 472 words


GERRY Adams yesterday warned that IRA bombers could return to mainland Britain
as the peace drive sank deeper into crisis.

Sinn Fein's leader spoke out as Tony Blair and Bertie Ahern's latest attempt to
break the deadlock failed.

He said: "I watched what happened in Brixton on Saturday. It used to happen
quite often."

London and Dublin insist the IRA has to give up some weapons before Sinn Fein
can join the new Northern Ireland Assembly's ruling body.

They are backed by the Unionists who insist they won't sit alongside the IRA's
political wing without some decommissioning.

But the Provos have refused and Sinn Fein have accused the two governments of
trying to rewrite the Good Friday Agreement.

Mr Adams yesterday repeated his call for the Unionists to budge and warned that,
without compromise, the peace deal would be "as good as dead".

His veiled warning of the possible bomb threat to Britain echoed a similar
recent warning from a Republican hardliner.

Brendan McClenghan, a supporter of the Continuity IRA, which does not recognise
the peace process, was asked about future terror attacks in London.

"Nothing much has changed to suggest that it isn't a possibility something like
that could happen again," he said.

Mr Blair and Mr Ahern held five hours of talks with political leaders at Downing
Street yesterday.

They later announced a fresh round of negotiations next week.

But, with the potentially explosive marching season and local elections
approaching, gloom is growing that the gulf can be bridged.

Mr Ahern insisted both the Unionists and Sinn Fein would have to give ground.

"I don't expect either side to lose all but neither do I expect either side to
win all.

"I am not asking either side to concede totally their position."

Downing Street stressed the politicians were still talking. A spokesman said:
"What is important is that nobody is walking away from this process."

He insisted the two governments would not put the peace drive on ice over the
summer.

Seamus Mallon, deputy leader of the SDLP, said: "We've no intention of allowing
this agreement to go by default nor have of allowing the political process to be
destroyed by an issue such as decommissioning.

"Unless there is movement on these two absolute demands, then what they are
holding us all to ransom."

Meanwhile loyalist terrorists were challenged to put pressure on the IRA by
starting to hand over their guns.

First Minister David Trimble said the move would isolate Provo chiefs resisting
arms decommissioning.

"I would like to appeal to them to discharge their responsibilities as well," he
said.

"If the loyalist paramilitaries were at this stage to make a move it would
isolate those elements within republicanism that are unable to move forward."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TALKS CRISIS: Gerry Adams believes compromise is needed to save peace
deal

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              234 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            April 22, 1999, Thursday

BOMB-BLAST POLICE 'WANTED TO CHARGE SUSPECT'

BYLINE: Peter Beal Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words


Police investigating Britain's biggest mainland terrorist bomb believed they had
enough evidence to arrest and charge a man.

But the suspect remains free - and is even said to have been watched by
detectives on a trip to view the scene of the devastation in Manchester.

The claims emerged as a report named the man they said was a prime suspect in
the bombing of the city in which more than 200 people were injured four years
ago.

He is said to be a 31-year-old man from Crossmaglen, South Armagh. According to
official documents said to have been obtained by the newspaper, a report from
Greater Manchester Police to the Crown Prosecution Service said officers were
"steadfast in their belief" that the suspect was involved in the conspiracy.

The report is said to read: "It is the opinion of investigating officers of GMP
that there is sufficient evidence to charge (the named man) with being a party
to a conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom."

The Crown Prosecution Service is understood to have advised after studying the
evidence that while there might be sufficient evidence to charge the man a
conviction would be unlikely.

Some officers in the force are believed to be disillusioned that a massive
inquiry launched after the one-and-a-half ton bomb exploded has led to no
arrests.

A spokeswoman for the Crown Prosecution Service said yesterday: "People cannot
be charged on suspicion. We have to have solid evidence that would stand up a
case.

"We gave our advice to the police as we do in any case." But she would not
confirm that the name of the man was contained in a confidential file the CPS
received from the police.

Greater Manchester Police yesterday denied reports that the investigation into
the bombing was on the point of being closed.

"The inquiry is still very much ongoing," said a spokeswoman. "It is not
appropriate to comment at this time."

The police investigation was said to have linked the named man to six other IRA
conspirators and to a group in London who were jailed last year for conspiracy
to cause explosions in the capital.

The Manchester bomb, which rocked the city centre and caused damage of pounds
500 million - some buildings are still under repair - was planted in a lorry
which was parked outside a Marks and Spencer store in Corporation Street on June
15, 1996.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              235 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 22, 1999

Manchester bomb suspect is named by newspaper;
POLICE AND PROSECUTORS AT ODDS OVER WHETHER TO CHARGE 31-YEAR-OLD

BYLINE: Stephen Wright

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 494 words


A MAN believed to be the prime suspect in one of mainland Britain's worst
bombing outrages was named in a newspaper yesterday after an extraordinary
wrangle over whether to charge him.

The 31-year-old man was identified as a key member of a Provisional IRA team
which exploded the one-and-a-half ton device in the centre of Manchester three
years ago.

The blast on June 15, 1996, left 200 injured, caused GBP 500million worth of
damage and tore the heart out of the city centre.

According to the Manchester Evening News, police wrote to the Crown Prosecution
Service insisting: 'There is sufficient evidence to charge (the man) with being
a party to a conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom.' The Greater
Manchester force believed the man and six others, currently serving lengthy jail
sentences for terrorist offences on the mainland, 'conspired together to cause
the explosion on Manchester'.

But the CPS has declined to proceed.

A spokesman refused to comment on the specific case but said: 'We have to have
solid evidence that would stand up in court.' The fact that such a detailed and
sensitive file was given to the Manchester Evening News indicates the depth of
anger and frustration felt at senior level in the force over the CPS decision.

The man lives in Crossmaglen, in South Armagh. Security sources in Ulster said
he was not known to them and had no previous convictions.

The paper claims the IRA's original target had been the Trooping of the Colour
in London the same day. But security in the capital was considered so formidable
that at the last minute they opted for a 'soft' target.

The bombers drove a Ford Cargo lorry carrying the bomb 200 miles up the M1 and
M6. Security cameras were found to have monitored the journey. It was spotted at
7.40pm on the Friday heading north up the M1 in tandem with a Ford Granada,
which was used as a getaway car.

At 8.31am on the day of the blast it was seen on the M62, eastbound for
Manchester from Warrington, near where it is believed to have been garaged
overnight by sympathisers.

At 9.19am, it was filmed parked outside the Marks & Spencer store in Corporation
Street, Manchester.

Just over two hours later it exploded.

Special Branch detectives, involved in what police called Operation Cannon, knew
the identities of one of the suspects within weeks, and began observations. Much
of the police case surrounds a mobile phone said to have been used by the
bombers to report to their bosses in Ireland that their mission was
accomplished.

A Greater Manchester Police spokesman said: 'The bombing is the longest
investigation we have ever undertaken and inquiries are very much ongoing. It is
therefore not appropriate to comment further.' The Daily Mail has chosen not to
name the alleged suspect. Last night the Manchester Evening News defended its
decision on the grounds that 'no one is likely to be charged with the bombing'.


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DEVASTATION: MANCHESTER CITY CENTRE AFTER THE BLAST IN JUNE1996. INSET:
LAST NIGHT'S PAPER

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              236 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       April 22, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

Police 'know bomber'

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 103 words


    Police investigating Britain's biggest mainland terrorist bomb believed they
had enough evidence to arrest and charge a man, it was claimed yesterday.

But the suspect remains free - and is even said to have been watched by
detectives on a trip to view the scene of June 15, 1996 blast's devastation in
Manchester.

The Manchester Evening News named the man they said was a prime suspect.

The Crown Prosecution Service is understood to have advised after studying a
Greater Manchester Police report that while there might be sufficient evidence
to charge the man a conviction would be unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              237 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Post Magazine

                                 April 22, 1999

TRAVEL ASSISTANCE; A HELPING HOLIDAY HAND.

SECTION: Pg.22

LENGTH: 2398 words

DATELINE: UK


With holiday-makers and travellers heading off to ever-more exotic and even
dangerous locations, the pressures on travel assistance firms is greater now
than ever before. Steve Banner reports.

Back in the mid '60s, going to Ibiza for a fortnight in the sun was considered
something of an adventure when most Britons were more familiar with Blackpool
and Bournemouth.

Times have changed. Today's package holidaymakers think nothing of jetting off
to the Dominican Republic or Florida. They're doing so in huge numbers and they
expect their insurer to help if they get into difficulties.

"These days it's now all but impossible to buy a travel policy that doesn't have
an assistance/repatriation service as an integral feature," says Peter Nott,
corporate marketing manager at Mondial Assistance.

The sheer volume of leisure and business travellers, plus the fact that elderly
people seem perfectly willing to board a plane and disappear to the other side
of the world, places huge pressures on the emergency assistance companies. They
are being imposed at a time when insurers are looking to pay less for the aid
they offer, not more, and in a climate in which consumers are proving more
demanding and are prepared to resort to the courts (or ring Anne Robinson and
Alice Beer) if they're not completely satisfied.

Difficult money-maker

Such pressures are making some assistance firms wonder if they might be better
off concentrating on other areas where they are already active, such as roadside
rescue and recovery and household emergencies. Green Flag is now dedicating its
resources to both activities, having pulled out of the overseas aid sector.

"It's difficult to make money out of overseas medical assistance," says one
industry insider. "It's labour-intensive. Despatching a plumber to fix a leak in
someone's house isn't."

So far as the UK is concerned, the three biggest players in travellers
assistance are Europ Assistance, Mondial, and Inter Partner. All are partly or
wholly-owned by insurance companies. The first-named is 55% owned by Generali,
with Fiat France the other major shareholder with 40%. Mondial has joined forces
with Elvia Travel Insurance, and operates under a new holding company. RAS -
Allianz's Italian company, which controls Elvia through Elvia Switzerland - owns
50%. The other 50% is owned by AGF, Allianz's French company which controls
Mondial through SACNAS. Inter Partner is owned by Axa.

Several British travel insurers own their own assistance operations.

Bishopsgate owns Assistance International, for example, Norwich Union owns
Worldwide Assistance, while FirstAssist is a Royal & SunAlliance subsidiary.
European Travel Insurance (ETI) - the UK arm of Copenhagen, Denmark based
insurer Europaeiske Rejseforsikring - has a parent which owns a large worldwide
assistance network operating under the Euro-Alarm banner.

ETI was launched on this side of the Channel in October 1997, and concentrates
on the corporate market. The travel insurance market leader in France, Germany,
and Denmark, it has also moved into the leisure sector in Britain recently with
an annual travel policy.

Even relatively small firms have set up units specialising in aiding travellers
who may have suffered anything from a broken leg on a Swiss ski slope to a heart
attack on a cruise ship in the Bosphorus. Ketteridge Insurance Group for example
has a 24-hour emergency centre based at Billericay in Essex offering aid under
the Travel Assistance Services banner.

Just because an assistance firm is owned by an insurer(s), that doesn't
necessarily mean to say that it acts solely for that insurer. Many providers
take on a wide variety of work from third party clients.

Technology surge

The challenge presented to assistance specialists by the greater willingness of
people to travel to exotic places is counter-balanced to some extent by the
great improvement in communications technology over the past 30 years. E-mail,
fax machines, and mobile phones are all routinely used nowadays, even in
surprisingly obscure corners of the globe. Mobile phones proved invaluable last
year when it came to dealing with the aftermath of a major coach crash in
Turkey, points out Martin Oakley, head of marketing for Europ Assistance in the
UK.

Some of the larger assistance groups argue, however, that there is no substitute
for having a global network of local offices to help deliver aid, and that this
is preferable to relying solely on local agents.

"We've got 36 offices worldwide, in locations including Japan, Singapore,
Thailand, Taiwan and Malaysia," says Mark Somers, Inter Partner's deputy general
manager in the UK. He argues that it makes more sense for them to handle
emergency cases and liaise with local doctors and clinics than for the company
to attempt to control what's going on from its headquarters thousands miles
away, because they understand local customs and medical practices and speak the
local languages. "The number of incidents we're dealing with isn't rising, but
cases are becoming more complicated because of where they are turning up," he
observes.

Mr Somers goes on to contend that there are two leagues of assistance companies.
The premier league - in which, not surprisingly, he ranks Inter Partner - can
deal with personal crises anywhere on the planet. Those in the next division
down are only really capable of coping with emergencies in Western Europe, he
states, which can usually be handled from the UK.

He regrets that consumers do not appreciate the differences in capability
between one assistance provider and another. "At the moment, however, most
travel insurance is sold on price," he observes. "When people are booking their
holiday, they give little thought to their own safety and welfare, and to who is
going to help them if something unpleasant happens."

"When you're struck down with hepatitis in the middle of Borneo, and don't know
who to turn to for medical help, the type of insurance you have suddenly becomes
critically important," says ETI managing director, Andrew Perolls. He agrees
that a global assistance organisation must have its own offices and staff based
in or near the most important tourist and business destinations.

Delivering efficiency

His firm has a worldwide network of offices - including one in Katmandu, the
capital of Nepal - linked by an intranet, and doesn't use local agents.

He believes this presence gives ETI a better grasp of prevailing conditions in
the country or region concerned than some of its rivals, and allows it to
deliver a more efficient service to customers.

"We can pay claims on the spot, for example, and we can visit hospitals and
doctors ourselves, and monitor their performance," he points out.

This presence on the ground is invaluable when it comes to containing the cost
of treatment, he says, and the network can call on central support whenever it
needs to.

"We have 30 doctors at our control centre in Copenhagen who speak 19 languages
between them," Mr Perolls continues. The complement includes bone and heart
specialists.

While this approach is praiseworthy, it also means ETI is shouldering a massive
overhead. FirstAssist argues that agents can be just as effective, always
assuming that you pick the right ones.

"Agents must have the infrastructure and capabilities to cope with any
situation, and monitoring their performance is essential," says Christina
Fairclough, manager, assistance division. "FirstAssist monitors and develops its
networks through its own network team and the International Assistance Group - a
global organisation of like-minded assistance companies who share their
knowledge, expertise and experience.

"The growth in pre-travel advice is another means of practical assistance
available to the traveller prior to departure to a far-flung destination," she
continues. "Understanding, for example, which innoculations are required and the
local climate could all avoid the traveller requiring medical assistance during
the trip."

The explosion in global travel has meant that assistance companies have had to
identify reliable hospitals in areas of the globe where medical standards can
vary wildly. Pattaya in Thailand has excellent hospital facilities, for example,
says FirstAssist, as does Djakarta, the capital of Indonesia, although hospitals
in other parts of both countries don't always achieve the same standards.

Companies have also had to react to changes in the types of holidays that
travellers like to take. The cruise market has expanded signficantly in recent
years, one consequence being that assistance providers have been called on to
aid passengers taken ill at sea.

"Fortunately cruise ships are never very far from land - two or three days at
the most - so that's usually not too problematic," says Mark Somers.

"And the larger vessels have well-equipped medical centres and well-qualified
medical teams."

Although medical experts thought many of the killer diseases of the past had
been tamed, new strains are arriving which are proving difficult to treat. New
diseases are appearing too; hence assistance firms are increasingly being asked
to fly out HIV-screened blood to Third World countries for use by sick and
insured policyholders who urgently need a transfusion.

In recent years terrorists have come to realise that attacking - or threatening
to attack - tourists can be a handy means of putting pressure on a regime that
they detest if the government is dependent on income from holidaymakers.

Hence the tragic attacks on tourists in Egypt and the Yemen.

Unexpected danger zones

While insurers will not normally cover people travelling to countries declared
unsafe by the Foreign Office, attacks can occur in places where no threat was
anticipated. It is in those circumstances that assistance providers are called
on to help.

"Very often the first we know about it is when they turn up in the nearest
hospital," says Mr Somers.

In some cases, providers have been asked to identify hospitals, especially in
the US, that will carry out certain procedures - everything from setting a
broken leg to performing a triple heart by-pass - for a set fee. Sometimes
providers help to negotiate with hospitals - again the US figures prominently -
over excessive bills for treatments which may not even be necessary.

"If you get stung by a bee in Spain, you're likely to end up going to a clinic
that will want to admit you as an in-patient," Mr Somers remarks.

In attempting to contain costs, they have to walk a fine line between ensuring
the patient receives the best possible care, and not being profligate with the
insurance company's money. Medical costs can represent anywhere between 60% to
80% of a travel insurer's annual claims bill, points out Mondial's Peter Nott.
"Patient care must always be paramount, however," says Paulette Ing, Worldwide's
operations director.

Yet another problem they've had to deal with recently is the practice adopted by
some American hospitals of appearing to settle the bill in its entirety, then
pursuing the insured for what they claim is the balance owing. "We appoint third
party adjusters to liaise with hospitals in the US to ensure this doesn't
happen," says Ms Ing.

Assistance providers are also having to cope with an increase in disputes with
consumers over the way they've been dealt with. "People are becoming more aware
of their right to complain if they feel they haven't been treated correctly,"
Inter Partner's Mark Somers observes.

Flying sick or injured people either back to Britain, or to the nearest city
with hospitals with a good standard of treatment - which may be Singapore, say,
if you happen to be in northern Indonesia - doesn't come cheap.

Strong relationships

Worldwide points out that hiring an air ambulance, for example, to fly somebody
from the Canary Islands to Gatwick costs GBP 11,000. Fortunately, a flying
ambulance isn't usually required because the relationship Inter Partner and the
other big assistance companies have built up with the airlines over the years
means that they're generally willing to be helpful, says Mr Somers.

"British Airways, for example, is very good," he observes. "However the airlines
are always going to be concerned if they believe that whatever the individual is
suffering from may be contagious."

The expense involved in organising assistance means that providers have to think
carefully about the rates they quote when pitching for business, and take the
nature of the likely customer base into account.

If the insurer's client is a travel group catering for older people, then the
aid company can expect to deal with more cardiac and respiratory problems than
it would if most of the customers were in their thirties and forties, says Europ
Assistance's Martin Oakley.

At the other end of the age scale, holidays tailored to appeal to the 18-30s may
yield a painful crop of broken limbs. Leaping off a hotel balcony into the
swimming pool at three o'clock in the morning, only to find half-way down that
it's been drained in order to be cleaned, pretty much guarantees a trip to
hospital.

Is there anywhere that assistance companies cannot reach? "East of the Ural
Mountains things get difficult; but aside from war zones, most places worldwide
are accessible," says Mr Nott.


Anatomy of an accident

When nasty accidents occur, the help of an assistance provider can prove vital.
Even an apparently minor injury may require a lot of expensive aid. FirstAssist
relates the story of a policyholder who had a fall on an Austrian ski slope,
tearing ligaments in her left knee. She had to be helicoptered off the slope and
treated by a local doctor, who immobilised her knee in a non-flexible cast.
FirstAssist guaranteed the cost of the helicopter piste rescue, as well as the
medical expenses at the local clinic in the resort. Because she was unable to
bend her injured knee, FirstAssist arranged special transport to the airport
plus two extra seats on her flight back home. As a consequence, she had a total
of three seats to sit across, so she could keep her leg elevated for the
duration of the journey. The company also organised wheelchair and luggage
assistance at both the airport in Austria and the airport in the UK, and a car
to take her to her home address.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                 Copyright 1999 Timothy Benn Publishing Limited

                              238 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 24, 1999

Flattening a few broadcasters;
It is instructive to imagine what would happen if Britain's transmitters were
bombed

BYLINE: MARK LAWSON

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 830 words


At dinners of the television industry, during the final speeches of the evening
one remark always restores the audience's attention: to remind those present
that the TV station is the first building stormed in any civil war. This is
virtually guaranteed applause, making the guests feel that they belong not
merely to a profession but also to a moral cause.

It will, though, be a brave after-dinner speaker who points out at some future
such gathering that, when the allied coalition got really desperate over Kosovo,
they chose to obliterate the headquarters of Serbian TV.

The romantic image is that the truth is at stake by the control of TV
transmission.

The destruction of Serbian TV is different as this was a station transmitting
propaganda or, at least, what our own propagandists regarded as such.

But what is particularly troubling about this attack is that Nato does seem to
have had an unusually clear choice between attacking peopled and unpeopled
targets. Clare Short yesterday was unable to explain why transmitters had not
been bombed instead of studios. In killing journalists and their civilian
support staff, Nato's argument unavoidably seems to be with the messengers
rather than the medium.

In any case, there is a strong humanitarian argument for excluding broadcasting
facilities from military action on the basis that information from your own
government can be regarded as a human right in wartime. Any act of war involves
moral arrogance but there is an especially terrible condescension in deciding
that the people of another nation are not being told the truth by their leaders.

They probably are not. But can any modern politician in Britain or America be so
absolute about truth? Indeed, the very cynical would conclude that the reason
for bombing the television station now was that it had broadcast a little too
much of the truth in recent days: being able to screen Nato's recent admissions
about the accidental obliteration of civilians.

Ministers insist on our still-pristine screens that, under international law,
broadcasting stations may be targeted if they are instruments of propaganda or
prolong the war. Apart from the difficulty of judging what propaganda is, this
raises the paradox that only the independence of the BBC's reporting of this war
- the source of recent complaints from Tony Blair and Alastair Campbell -
prevents British broadcasters from becoming a legitimate target for terrorism or
other attack by Serbia.

If the BBC really did parrot the government line in the way that Blair and his
advisers would seem to want, then President Milosevic would, under international
law, be justified in dropping bombs on Broadcasting House and Television Centre.

And it is instructive for a moment to imagine Britain's broadcasting outlets
being bombed flat. The military rationale is presumably that the absence of
propaganda will demoralise and enfeeble the UK. But is that what will happen?

The effect of bombing on populations has generally been to increase support for
their leaders. So, logically, the effect may be to glamorise the survivors.
Certainly, it seems to me that, in a similarly blitzed Britain, broadcasters
would become heroes. Newscasters who happened to be off-shift at the time of the
bombing would speak from makeshift studios on flickering screens. The power of
samizdat publications on paper or the internet would increase.

Organised state broadcasting would be replaced by an informal and less reliable
net work of gossip and rumour. Resentment at the enemy would rise and it would
become easy for demagogues to suggest that the hostile power was frightened of
the truth.

Blair and Clinton have an unnatural belief in the power of television. The way
they dress and talk and wear their hair has been dictated by the medium. Both
have used it to speak directly to the people . Both have come to resent
broadcasters' representation of their policies.

When President Clinton launched bombing raids just before his trial in the
Senate was about to begin, there was an American newspaper cartoon showing a
Pentagon map on which one cruise missile was making a huge detour to hit Monica
Lewinsky's house.

You wonder, now, if a version of this joke has not been played out for real.
Clinton believes that the US television networks often supported rather than
reported the case against him. Blair, as we and John Simpson discovered last
week, is furious with BBC television.

Last week's row with his own broadcasters showed Blair's belief in a direct
relationship between opinions transmitted on TV and the will of civilians to
support a war. He may now have acted on this belief.

The violent husband takes out personal and professional failures on his family.
The media-hostile Blair and Clinton have just evaporated the television system
of another nation. It is displacement rage. And our own broadcasters will tell
them so and make them angrier.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              239 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 25, 1999, Sunday

What the bombers want

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 298 words


Two bomb explosions in London's multi-ethnic communities in consecutive weekends
are clearly calculated to spread fear, arouse suspicion and incite racial
tension. The injuries of innocent passers-by are a means to that end. If we are
to defeat the bombers, it follows that we must do all we can to deny them their
real ambition, which is to destabilise good race relations. Their aim is to turn
Londoners against themselves and replace neighbourliness by neighbourhood wars.
However long it takes to catch them, they must not succeed.

London's MPs bear a special responsibility in shaping opinion. Oona King, the
Labour MP from east London, where the Brick Lane bomber struck, served no useful
purpose by saying that the outrage was "obviously part of the backlash against
the Lawrence inquiry". This inquiry incited white racists by accusing the
Metropolitan police of botching their in vestigation of the murder of Stephen
Lawrence because of alleged "institutional racism". The police passed their
first test in rising above that accusation by the sensitive way in which they
handled last weekend's Brixton bombing. They - and community leaders working
alongside them - need all the help they can get in hunting the bombers.
Ill-judged speculation about the cause of the latest attack plays into the
terrorists' hands.

Racial bigotry has never taken root in Britain because we are a basically
tolerant nation. We must ensure that remains the case. These bombings are likely
to be the actions of a tiny, embittered minority which has long lost the battle
for public support. We must ensure they continue to lose. What they cannot win
by argument, they are trying to win by terror. Our response must be to deny them
the effect they hope to achieve - racial discord.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Leading Article; Opinion

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              240 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 25, 1999, Sunday

Bomber picks targets to spread race terror

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed-Thomas and Steve Farrar

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 554 words


WHEN the explosion tore through Brick Lane yesterday, it confirmed detectives'
fears of a race-hate terror campaign.

The attack pointed to a bomber who is callously targeting the capital's black
and Asian communities - and ended any speculation that Brixton might not have
been the target of the previous week's bomb.

Combat 18, widely considered to be the most dangerous right-wing group in
Britain, was the first Nazi group to claim responsibility for the south London
nail bomb blast. Other fascist groups, one calling itself the White Wolves which
has made death threats to black, Asian and Jewish peers, also claimed
responsibility. Last night Scotland Yard received a call from a man claiming to
be from Combat 18, saying it had planted the East End bomb.

Gerry Gable, former editor of the anti-facist magazine Searchlight, said: "The
aim of whoever is doing this is simple: they want to trigger a race war. They
are targeting high-profile locations strongly associated with racial minorities.
The intention is to create a backlash against whites."

The 1990s have been a decade of mounting frustration for Britain's right-wing
extremists. The British National party (BNP), the largest of the groups,
believed that it was on the edge of a breakthrough when its candidate, Derek
Beackon, won a seat on Tower Hamlets council in east London in 1993. But he
failed to keep it and support for the party drifted away.

Combat 18 was formed in the early 1990s by breakaway BNP members disillusioned
with what they saw as the party's soft tactics and lack of success. The title is
based on the name of Adolf Hitler - A and H are the first and eighth letters of
the alphabet.

In January 1997, a court heard that Combat 18 was thought to be linked with a
letter bomb campaign which targeted three London addresses. The group is known
to compile information on bombs and weaponry. In recent years its members have
been involved in bitter and sometimes bloody internal struggles. Two Combat 18
recruits were jailed for life last year for murdering a fringe member.

Although Combat 18 is anxious to gain publicity by claiming responsibility for
the bombing campaign, anti-racist campaigners are sceptical about its actual
involvement. They say intelligence sources within the organisation have not
reported any plans for a serious offensive.

Other violent Nazi groups are less organised and work in underground cells with
often only three or four members. They are inspired by American extremists who
follow a theory of leaderless resistance. Anti-racist campaigners say the bomber
is more likely to be operating alone or in one of these cells.

"They are like serial poisoners," said Gable. "Once they get away with it
they'll keep on doing it - until they make a mistake and get caught."

Yesterday afternoon's bomb attack came after hundreds of campaigners attended a
march in Southall, west London, to mark the 20th anniversary of the death of the
anti-racist campaigner Blair Peach.

Claire Dissington, of the Anti-Nazi League, said the terrorist attacks were
probably partly motivated by recent anti-racist sentiment that grew after the
inquiry into the murder of Stephen Lawrence. "This is an expression of their
complete frustration at not being able to make any headway," she said.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              241 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 26, 1999

Alert after second race-hate bombing;
 FAR-RIGHT EXTREMISTS: police fear more attacks nationwide

BYLINE: PA News Reporters

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 619 words


BLACK and Asian communities were on alert today after the second nail bomb
attack by racists sparked fears of a neo-Nazi terror campaign across the
country.

Scotland Yard has drafted in extra detectives into the anti-terrorist branch and
stepped up the hunt for the far-right extremists who bombed Brixton and Brick
Lane in London.

Police chiefs in Birmingham, Luton, Bradford, Manchester, Leicester, Liverpool,
Leeds, Nottingham, Cardiff, Bristol and Glasgow have now been put on alert for
attacks in their areas.

The search for the bombers is the Yard's top priority, with senior officers well
aware that their success will be closely monitored by ethnic communities in the
wake of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry.

A national meeting of chief constables on Wednesday will be told the latest
developments in the investigations.

Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Paul Condon said the Brick Lane bomb -
exactly a week after the Brixton explosion in which 39 people were injured - was
clearly designed to maim and kill innocent people.

Six people were injured on Saturday evening when the device went off inside a
car on the busy street - the centre of the biggest expatriate Bangladeshi
community in the world.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said that two hours after the attack, the
neo-Nazi terror group Combat 18 claimed it was responsible. The 999 call was
made from a telephone box in New Malden, south-west London.

In the past week police have received a "growing number" of threats from extreme
right-wing groups.

Assistant commissioner David Veness spoke of his fears that the bombers could
strike outside London.

"We feared that the crime that occurred last Saturday would be repeated and
tragically it has.

"We cannot rule out that other attacks might take place outside the London area
to places which have the same characteristics as Brixton and Brick Lane."

He was helping officers across the country to co-ordinate "defensive responses"
against similar racist attacks.

Police are currently combing through hours of CCTV tape in the hope that those
responsible have been caught on video.

Sir Paul accepted a cluster of anniversaries significant to the ethnic minority
community, including the deaths of Stephen Lawrence and Blair Peach, may have
provoked the bombing campaign.

Saturday's bomb was found in a black Reebok sports bag left in Hanbury Street, a
few hundred yards away from where the bomb exploded.

A man picked up the bag in Hanbury Street and took it to Brick Lane police
office, which was closed at that time.

The man's car was parked near the police office and he put the bag in his boot
apparently intending to take it to another police station.

It was then that he realised that there might be a bomb in the bag, some ten
minutes after first picking it up.

He left the scene and shortly afterwards the bomb went off.

Claude Moraes, of the Commission for Racial Equality, said there would be
"concern" among Britain's ethnic minority community about the likelihood of a
prolonged racist bombing campaign.

He said: "I think that there will be a call for the police to step up their
efforts to catch the perpetrators.

"The effect of this will be shock in the community and the terror that has been
caused is unacceptable."

The Bishop of Stepney, the Right Reverend Dr John Sentamu, visited the scene
last night. He told reporters: "I want to see what damage has been done, and
assure the traders and people who live here that evil can only be conquered by
hope, self-sacrifice and courage."

Bangladeshi community leaders said people in Brick Lane were angered by the
attack but determined to return to normal life.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              242 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

POLICE FEAR MORE RACIST BOMBINGS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 181 words


SECURITY was being stepped up in Great Britain last night in the aftermath of
racist bomb attacks in Brixton and Brick Lane.

As the hunt continued for those responsible for Saturday's attack in Brick Lane,
at the heart of London's Bengali community, police warned that the bombings
could spread outside the capital.

Metropolitan Police commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, said the Brick Lane bomb -
exactly a week after the Brixton explosion in which 39 people were injured - was
clearly designed to maim and kill innocent people.

Six people were injured when the device went off inside a car on the busy
street.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said that two hours after the attack, the
neo-Nazi terror group Combat 18 claimed it was responsible.

The White Wolves, a breakaway faction of Combat 18, has warned all Blacks and
Jews to leave Britain permanently by December 31. The chilling threat came in a
letter so far received by 25 people.

"Jews and non-whites who remain after 1999 has ended will be exterminated. Hail
Britannia," the hate letter said.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WRECKAGE: the bomb car, above, and the Brick Lane police station
window, right, ironically warning of terrorist bomb threat

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

MIDLANDS ON ALERT FOR RACE BOMBS

BYLINE: Chris Gray And Boris Worrall

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 785 words


Every police officer in the West Midlands has been put on alert over fears the
region could be the next target in a race-hate bombing campaign.

Right wing terror group Combat 18 - which has claimed responsibility for two
explosions in London - is thought to have an active cell in Walsall.

Now officers are being told to keep a special watch for suspect packages because
of concerns extremists are trying to stir up a nationwide race war.

The force is stepping up security after advice from Scotland Yard that bombers
who struck for a second time in London at the weekend may move outside the
capital.

Racist groups have also been sending death threats to black and Asian
Parliamentarians, including Birmingham-born Lord Taylor of Warwick.

Last night the Anti-Nazi League warned that Combat 18 has an active cell in the
Midlands, thought to centre on Bloxwich, Walsall. Up to 20 people may be
involved.

Last year one Asian family in the town was driven from their home by thugs who
daubed the sinister Combat 18 logo on their walls.

Combat 18 members have also previously vandalised Asians' cars, sent hate mail
and made threatening phone calls to councillors and trade union members in the
town.

In Saturday's bomb attack in Brick Lane, east London, six people were hurt by
the explosion - exactly a week after the first nail bomb in Brixton left 39
casualties.

The device exploded in a car in a busy street at the heart of London's Bengali
community. Scotland Yard yesterday said they had asked all police forces with
large ethnic minority populations to step up security fearing a national terror
campaign was planned.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness said: "We can't rule out
that attacks like this might be taken to locations outside the London area.

"We are in direct contact with colleagues from other police forces and on behalf
of the Association of Chief Police Officers I am assisting colleagues around the
country to co-ordinate defences and responses."

Some reports yesterday claimed Wolverhampton was being specifically targeted but
that was dismissed as "speculation" by Scotland Yard and West Midland officers.

West Midlands Police Insp Eric Hughes said Scotland Yard's warning had been
passed on to all West Midlands officers.

"It is to heighten the awareness of all. We are asking all officers to be
particularly alert to reports of suspect packages, especially in market places
or high streets, particularly in areas where there are large ethnic minorities.

"As far as I am aware there is no specific intelligence regarding the West
Midlands, it is just a case of making sure that everybody heightens their
awareness of the situation. It is the same as during the IRA campaigns," he
said.

Birmingham councillor Muhammad Afzal (Lab Aston), whose ward has a large
Pakistani and Indian community, said he was concerned the Midlands could be a
target for bombing.

"My fear is that the first bombs targeted Afro-Caribbean and Bangladeshi
communities with the first two bombs and now the Pakistani-Indian communities
could be next."

The Brick Lane bomb exploded after a man found a black Reebok sports bag and
took it to the nearest police office, which was closed.

He put the bag in his car boot intending to take it to another police station
but it exploded. The blast blew out windows and set fire to several buildings
but he escaped with minor injuries.

The bomb went off at 5.57pm, less than 30 minutes later than the Brixton
explosion the week before.

Two hours later a 999 telephone call made from a telephone box in New Malden,
south-west London, claimed the neo-Nazi group Combat 18 was responsible.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that Scotland Yard has warned black, Jewish and
Asian peers and MPs to be on guard for threatening letters.

A racist group calling itself the Command Council of White Wolves has sent the
letters to peers including Baroness Flather, the first Asian peer, and Lord
Taylor of Warwick.

The letters threaten violence unless all ethnic minority Parliamentarians leave
Britain by the end of the year.

Lord Taylor, who battled against racists when he stood as a Tory Parliamentary
candidate in Cheltenham where another Combat 18 group is thought to be based,
said: "I won't be intimidated by this kind of nonsense. If anything it makes me
more determined to fight racism.

"I am surprised that people are so surprised. I have been getting these kind of
letters for years. It is just part of life, most of them go straight in the
bin."

Midland Asian-peer Lord Paul said he had not received any threats and added: "It
is very unfortunate. It is so sad."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              244 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

TERROR OF THE WHITE WOLVES;
 ELITIST BAND OF NEO-NAZIS SEND LETTERS OF DEATH

BYLINE: Ross Reyburn

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 624 words


A sinister Neo-Nazi group, called the White Wolves, are being linked with the
racist bomb attacks in London, and police are concerned the violence could
spread out of the capital.

Birmingham, with its large ethnic population, is an obvious target.

While it seems unlikely there will be a replica of the London attacks in the
West Midlands, evidence is mounting that the nail bombings could be the start of
a campaign by far-Right extremists.

Nick Lowes, editor of anti-Fascist magazine Searchlight, believes the White
Wolves are more likely to be responsible for the attacks than Combat 18, one of
Britain's most notorious extremist groups.

"Whereas Combat 18 is easy to monitor, this group employs classic leaderless
resistance - and reflects the ideas of white supremacy in America," he said.

The White Wolves are a breakaway faction of Combat 18 and named after a Serbian
terrorist group.

Mr Mike Whine, of the Board of Jewish Deputies, said: "The organisation
comprises only half a dozen people - but then you do not need many to carry out
an act of violence."

Recent weeks have seen up to 25 people receiving identical stencilled death
threats from the White Wolves.

"The letters are fairly amateurish in terms of their phraseology but
nevertheless are very real because the people we know involved in the group have
a history of violence," said Mr Whine.

"The first people in the group emerged through Combat 18 several years ago. They
are named after a Serb terrorist group that was terrorising Kosovans.

"Some people from Britain and Germany had gone as volunteers to Serbia and
brought the name back with them. It featured in racist literature distributed a
few years ago."

The letters, issued by the Command Council of the White Wolves, read: "Notice is
hereby given that all non-whites (defined by blood, not religion) must
permanently leave the British Isles before the year is out.

"Jews & non-whites who remain after 1999 has ended will be exterminated. When
the clocks strike midnight on the 31st of December 1999 the White Wolves will
begin to howl and when the Wolves begin to howl the Wolves begin to hunt. You
have been warned. Hail Britannia."

Ms Oona King, the Labour MP for Bethnal Green and Bow, in whose constituency the
Brick Lane bomb exploded, received a letter at her offices at the House of
Commons on the Thursday before last week's Brixton bomb.

Mr Gerald Hartup, of anti-racist group The Freedom Association, received a
letter on April 15.

"It is the sort of thing that loopy racists do from time to time but they have
taken the trouble to communicate with a reasonable number of people," he said.

Police have warned black, Asian and Jewish peers to be on their guard and they
are using DNA testing on the letters to try to establish their authorship.

By terrorist standards, the bombs in Brick Lane on Saturday night and Brixton
last week rank in the amateur class.

But the damage they did was real enough.

Forty-four people have been injured in the two explosions on successive
Saturdays.

The evidence is mounting the two bombs are part of a planned campaign that may
be more than the work of one or two racist maniacs.

Four years ago, the White Wolves circulated a booklet calling for clandestine
violent tactics.

"The race war is not about to happen, so we must start it ourselves," said the
booklet, which contained instructions on how to construct a bomb timer.

"Our main line of attack must be the immigrants themselves."

The ostentatiously-named Command Council of the White Wolves faxed the contents
of its sinister "extermination" letter to both a radio station and a news agency
in the week before the Brixton bombing.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              245 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 26, 1999, Monday Edition 7

Police fear neo-Nazi group could start a nationwide campaign - North is on alert
for racist blasts

BYLINE: By BRENDA HICKMAN

SECTION: WORLD TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 312 words


   SECURITY has been stepped up at the places where Tyneside's ethnic minorities
worship, police revealed today.

Community leaders and Northumbria Police had already discussed tightening
precautions at mosques in Newcastle's West End two weeks before the nail bomb
attacks on black and Asian communities in London.

Security is also being reviewed at synagogues in Gateshead and other premises on
South Tyneside.

Tyne 's vice chairman Zafar Khan, who is also a Newcastle West End councillor,
is meeting the force's chief constable Crispian Strachan tomorrow to discuss the
matter. The meeting had been arranged prior to the bombings in London.

Newcastle West End commander, Supt Eric Mock, who launched the force's racial
incident investigation unit at the West Road police station a year ago, said:
"We have been working closely with ethnic community group leaders and have
established positive links."

Meanwhile, Scotland Yard has drafted extra officers into the anti-terrorist
branch and stepped up the hunt for the far-right extremists who bombed Brixton
and Brick Lane in London.

And police chiefs in other cities across Britain with large ethnic communities
have also been put on alert.

The Home Secretary, Jack Straw, appealed today for anyone with information to
come forward.

"People who have got any sort of information about neighbours or friends or
acquaintances or people at work who they think may be involved in far right,
extremist organisations should please tell the police," he said.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, said the Brick Lane bomb, a
week after the Brixton explosion, was clearly designed to maim and kill innocent
people.

Six people were injured on Saturday when the device went off inside a car on the
busy street. Two hours later, the neo-Nazi terror group Combat 18 said it was to
blame.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW WORRY - Sir Paul Condon

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              246 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

EAST LONDON BOMBING: FAR-RIGHT FACTION AIMS TO TRIGGER VIOLENT RACE WAR

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 851 words


THE EXTREME right in Britain, unlike some counterparts in Europe, had been known
for random racial attacks rather than organised terrorism. On the face of it,
the London bombs, at Brick Lane and Brixton, appear to change that.

But police and anti-fascist sources counsel against seeing the attacks as
evidence that the extremists have suddenly acquired the expertise and the
arsenal to conduct large-scale, sustained paramilitary operations. The more
likely scenario is that a small faction has embarked on a bombing campaign that
is rudimentary, although alarming and dangerous,

Several far-right groups sought responsibility for the attack on Brixton, south
London on Saturday 12 April, one of the first claims being made by the neo-Nazi
Combat 18, which takes its name from Adolf Hitler's initials, the first and
eighth letter of the alphabet. But there was also a call from an organisation
hitherto unknown to the public, the White Wolves, and after the Brick Lane blast
its activities are now under intense scrutiny.

Four years ago, a 15-page booklet by the White Wolves was circulated among the
fascist fringes. It admitted the much-expected "race-war" simply was not " about
to happen. So we must start it ourselves ... Our main line of attack must be the
immigrants themselves, the black and Asian ghettos. If this is done regularly,
effectively and brutally, the aliens will respond by attacking the whites at
random, forcing them off the fence and into self- defence". The cycle of
friction and violence would, they believe, ultimately lead to the hoped-for
racial civil war.

The booklet begins with a Rudyard Kipling poem, The Beginnings, containing the
line: "Time shall count from the date, That the English begin to hate". It
advises "nationalists" to form themselves into cells of two or three and
instructs on how to make a bomb timer with a clock, battery and lightbulb. It
does not suggest the use of nail bombs, but the bombs at Brixton and Brick Lane
are believed to have involved similar timers.

Black, Asian and Jewish politicians, public figures and organisations have had
recent threats from the White Wolves saying" " Notice is hereby given that all
non-whites and jews (defined by blood not religion) must permanently leave the
British Isles before the year is out. Jews and non- whites who remain after 1999
has ended will be exterminated." It is signed "Hail Britannia".

The content of the White Wolves booklet bears similarities to the jargon of
white supremacist and survivalist cultures in the US. White Wolves is a name
used by a Serbian paramilitary organisation involved in ethnic cleansing in
Kosovo, and The Gray Wolves are an extreme right Turkish nationalist group that
has been accused of involvement in the assassination attempt on the Pope. Police
sources say it would be wrong to assume a sophisticated, international
organisation has been born. Instead, the White Wolves could be a very small body
inciting violence and offering advice for "nutters" to commit it.

Combat 18 has also been disseminating instructions on bomb-making. One recent
leaflet, adorned with pictures of Hitler and swastikas, shows how to build a
timer and electronic detonator. The group sees itself as the hard soldiers of
the white race, and they are contemptuous of others such as the National Front
for being "too soft". But in reality Combat 18 is now more involved in
drug-dealing and selling skinhead records than in leading the race war.

The C18 leader, Paul "Charlie "Sarjeant is serving a life sentence for the
murder of a fellow member, Christopher Castle, and the group recently split,
with a faction forming the National Socialist Alliance.

Combat 18 has also been heavily infiltrated by Scotland Yard's Special Branch
and the security services, and used, at one time, to gather intelligence on the
extreme-right and loyalist paramilitaries in Ulster, with whom the group had
forged links.

The Northern Ireland connection was loosened when the Ulster Volunteer Force,
whose leadership was alarmed at the racism and criminality of the British group,
ordered it to shut down its office in Belfast. Attempts have been made to
re-establish the links recently, with members of the Ulster Defence Association
and Ulster Volunteer Force visiting the mainland.

Among the other extreme-right groups, the National Front and the British
National Party are now trying, without much success, to follow a broadly
political agenda, although members are still engaged in routine violence. They
are not immediate suspects for the Brixton and Brick Lane bombs. One group that
does maintain close links with European terrorist organisations is the
International Third Position, founded by dissident National Front members and
Italian fascists who live here, including one suspected of the Bologna bombing.
The group has not claimed responsibility for the London bombings.

Mike Whine, of the Board of Jewish Deputies, said: "The organisation probably
consists of only half-a-dozen people, but you do not need many to carry out acts
of violence."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anti-Nazi protesters make their feelings known in a march at Brick Lane
yesterday Reuters

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              247 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

UK ON RACE-HATE BOMBS ALERT

BYLINE: Kim Sengupta, Linus Gregoriadis And Andrew Mullins

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 582 words


NEO-NAZI bombers are likely to strike at black, Asian and Jewish communities
across Britain, police warned yesterday as investigations continued into
Saturday's bomb attack in Brick Lane, east London.

Senior Scotland Yard officers revealed that police forces throughout the country
were liaising to protect ethnic minority and Jewish areas after the second
attack in London in eight days. Seven people were injured in the Brick Lane
attack, which followed a bomb in Brixton a week earlier that wounded 39 people.
A number of far right-wing organisations have claimed responsibility. The bombs
were similarly constructed with timing devices and police believe the same group
is responsible.

It has emerged that one of the groups claiming responsibility, the White Wolves,
sent death threats to a number of black, Asian and Jewish organisations several
days before the Brixton bombing. Among those threatened were the black Labour MP
Oona King, whose constituency of Bethnal Green and Bow covers Brick Lane, and
the Asian newspaper Eastern Eye.

The group has published a pamphlet explaining how to manufacture bombs, and
advocated attacks on ethnic minority targets to provoke a "race war". The neo
-Nazi group Combat 18 has also claimed responsibility for the attacks.

Tony Blair and William Hague expressed their deep concern at the attacks and the
Home Secretary, Jack Straw, promised that "full resources" would be used to
catch these "extremely evil criminals".

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, of the Metropolitan Police, said he had
already held emergency talks about the bombings with colleagues in the
Association of Chief Police Officers about the possibility of further attacks
outside London. He said yesterday: "We feared that the crime that occurred last
Saturday (at Brixton) would be repeated and tragically it has. We cannot rule
out that other attacks might take place to places which have the same
characteristics as Brixton and Brick Lane." He said "defensive responses" had
been prepared.

Areas where security is being tightened include Southall in west London, Golders
Green in north London, Bradford in West Yorkshire, the St Paul's area of
Bristol, and Moss Side in Manchester. Police are concentrating their inquiries
on known right-wing extremist groups and are working with Interpol.

The Brick Lane bomb, contained in a black Reebok sports bag, was left on the
pavement at Hanbury Street, near its junction with Brick Lane. It was identified
as suspicious by a passer-by who placed it in the boot of his car where it blew
up, setting on fire another car and a restaurant and shattering windows.

The man who picked up the bag was among those injured. He has been interviewed
by police.

The Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Sir Paul Condon, said combating the
attacks was the "major priority" for his force at present.

"These bombs were clearly designed to maim, kill and injure innocent people
going about their daily lives. We are not closing down any avenues of
investigation," he said.

Some Bangladeshis with businesses in Brick Lane and local officials have
received threats since the Brixton bombing saying "they would be next".

Some people have complained that the police response to the threats had been
inadequate. Scotland Yard said extra officers had been on duty in all areas
deemed vulnerable since the bombing in Brixton.

Bomb carnage, page 4

Donald Macintyre, Leading article, Review, page 3

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              248 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

VOICE OF THE MIRROR: TOGETHER WE CAN DEFEAT RACIST THUGS

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 251 words


EXTREMIST bigots want to unleash a race war on the streets of Britain.

They must not be allowed to succeed with their sick plan.

The bomb blasts in the East End of London on Saturday and in Brixton nine days
ago have shocked the nation.

But they should not be used as an excuse for vigilante gangs to roam the
streets.

Indiscriminate reprisals would only play into the hands of the racists.

The twisted extremists behind these attacks - and believed to be planning others
- have families, friends and acquaintances.

They must now have the courage to stand up and be counted, to stop these
lunatics before lives are lost.

But there is a further challenge to both the police and the black and Asian
communities.

These appalling attacks on innocent people present an opportunity for a new
start in race relations.

With a thorough, professional and intensive inquiry, the police can start to
banish the spectre of institutional racism raised in the report into the death
of Stephen Lawrence.

This the chance for them to prove they will treat race crimes with the
seriousness they deserve.

It is the chance, too, for leaders of the minority communities to put behind
them decades of resentment and co-operate fully with the police.

The overwhelming majority of British people are justly proud of the multi-
cultural society in which we live.

Racism can be beaten. The racists can be made outcasts from society. Working
together, we can build a better Britain.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              249 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 April 26, 1999

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 714 words


Bomb warning given to cities

Blacks, Asians on Combat 18 alert

POLICE chiefs in Nottingham were today put on alert amid fears of a neo-Nazi
terror campaign across the country.

Black and Asian communities are being warned to be watchful after a second nail
bomb attack in London, thought to have been perpetrated by far-right group
Combat 18.

Scotland Yard has drafted in extra detectives into the anti-terrorist branch and
stepped up the hunt for the racists who bombed Brixton and Brick Lane.

Police chiefs in Nottingham, Birmingham, Luton, Bradford, Manchester, Leicester,
Liverpool, Leeds, Cardiff, Bristol and Glasgow have been warned of possible
attacks in their areas.

Maim

The search for the bombers is the Yard's top priority, with senior officers well
aware that their success will be closely monitored by ethnic communities in the
wake of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry.

A national meeting of chief constables on Wednesday will be told the latest
developments in the investigations.

Metropolitan Police commissioner Sir Paul Condon said the Brick Lane bomb -
exactly a week after the Brixton explosion in which 39 people were injured - was
clearly designed to maim and kill innocent people.

Six people were injured on Saturday evening when the device went off inside a
car on the busy street, the centre of the biggest expatriate Bangladeshi
community in the world.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said that two hours after the attack,
Combat 18 claimed it was responsible in a 999 call made from a telephone box in
New Malden, south-west London.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness spoke of his fears: "We cannot rule out that
other attacks might take place outside the London area to places which have the
same characteristics as Brixton and Brick Lane."

Mr Veness said he was helping colleagues across the country to co-ordinate
"defensive responses" against similar racist attacks.

Refugees: UK is ready

The first Albanian Kosovars were settling into new lives in Britain today as a
row simmered between the Government and the United Nations High Commissioner for
Refugees.

Their mercy flight arrived at Leeds -Bradford airport with 161 refugees on
board, including 74 children, after Home Secretary Jack Straw hit back at claims
by the UNHCR that Britain was not playing its part.

Mr Straw pledged: "We are fully prepared to play our part in giving help to
bring vulnerable people to the UK, to reunite families and offer urgent medical
treatment to those who need it. We are committed to giving these people a safe
haven from the horrors of war until it is safe for them to return home.

"That is exactly the same situation as every other country within the European
Union."

But UNHCR's Lyndall Sachs said Macedonian authorities would not allow any more
refugees into their territory until the West had taken more and urged Britain to
do more.

Rachel Rees, from the Refugee Council, said: "These people are extremely
traumatised."

First off the aircraft was a lone girl whose hand was held by a refugee council
worker.

Apology to duo

Chicago Mayor Richard Daley says he will apologise to two young boys who were
falsely accused of killing an 11-year-old girl last year. Last week, prosecutors
charged convicted sex offender Floyd Durr, 30, with murder, kidnapping, unlawful
restraint and predatory criminal sexual assault in the killing of Ryan Harris.
Detectives said the boys confessed to killing Harris as they wanted her bicycle.

The write stuff

Don DeLillo has become the first American to win the Jerusalem Prize, the
selection committee has announced. The award is given to writers "whose work
expresses the theme of the freedom of the individual in society".

Revolution 'yes'

Venezuelans, who took part in a nationwide referendum yesterday, overwhelmingly
endorsed the centrepiece of President Hugo Chavez's agenda for a "social
revolution" - his proposal for a new constitution.

Bishop tribute

A bishop who was beaten to death in Guatemala, Juan Gerardi, was remembered as a
man who "hated injustice and loved equality" during a service before 60,000
people on the eve of the first anniversary of his killing. He was killed two
days after presenting a report blaming the army and paramilitary for human
rights abuses during Guatemala's 36-year civil war.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              250 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 April 26, 1999

World and national news

SECTION: World And National News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 1628 words


Notts on racist bombing alert

Combat 18 'could target other cities'

By AUSTIN MACAULEY and IAN DRURY

NOTTS police were put on full alert today following the racist bomb attack in
London over the weekend.

Metropolitan Police chiefs have told Notts officers they believe neo-Nazi
terrorists may now target other multi-racial areas such as Nottingham as part of
a campaign of terror.

Six people were injured on Saturday when a nail bomb exploded at the heart of
one of the UK's biggest Bangladeshi communities in Brick Lane, East London.

The attack came exactly a week after a nail bomb exploded in Brixton, south
London, injuring 39 people.

Combat 18 - a group of racist activists which has links with north Notts and
Derbyshire - has claimed responsibility for both attacks. Other groups have also
claimed involvement.

Evacuate

A Notts Police spokesman said: "We are urging members of the public to be
mindful of the possibility of an attack and also to remind them to be vigilant
and to report any suspicious packages or incidents to the police."

Glenn Wicks, Derbyshire Police spokesman, said they had been put on alert. He
said there was no immediate threat, but added: "If anybody finds a package which
they believe to be suspicious, they should evacuate the area and call the
police. Do not handle it, place it in water or attempt to smother it."

Several racist groups have been linked with Derbyshire and Notts, in particular
Heanor, Mansfield and Langley Mill.

Sabbir Hossain, secretary of the Bangladeshi Centre, Radford Road, Hyson Green,
said the attack had shaken the community.

"It was a bit tense at the centre yesterday and people were a bit worried that
the same thing could happen here. We have a large community here with lots of
shops and people about, so some people are bound to be worried."

Mr Hossain, an education officer for the city council, said: "The way to beat
these people is for the wider community to reject them. They can't continue for
a long time. Eventually they will go away."

Danube bridge blasted

AS Nato leaders pledged to intensify air strikes, allied missiles today
destroyed another major bridge across the Danube River and struck targets in
central, northern and southern Serbia.

The last of three bridges in Novi Sad, the second largest Yugoslav city, was
knocked down after being only partially damaged in three previous attacks, the
state Tanjug news agency reported. It said the 1,500 ft long rail and road
bridge suffered several direct hits before collapsing.

Tanjug said a fuel depot was targeted near the central Serbian town of Valjevo.
Nine missiles hit a military airport in Sombor, near the border with Hungary,
Serbian media said.

Tanjug said an area close to Kosovo's capital Pristina was also struck,
including Slatina military and civilian airport.

Nato has said it was destroying bridges in order to prevent troop deployments
southward to Kosovo. But the continuing focus on non-military targets in
Yugoslavia's far north comes amid increasing speculation of a ground campaign in
which allied forces could enter from Hungary, the only Nato member that borders
Yugoslavia.

D-day for computer virus

Computer users across the world have been put on alert to check for an
electronic virus that will strike today.

The virus, known as CIH, is capable of lurking invisibly in a computer until the
day comes, then causing havoc to the data stored there.

As well as deleting files stored in the computer's memory, CIH also attempts to
corrupt one of the essential core microchips, right at the heart of the machine,
which, if damaged, could leave it unusable.

The virus is most likely to have been contracted from infected software
downloaded from the internet or installed from a pirated CD-Rom.

It is not widespread in Europe or the US, but very common on computers in Asia.

CIH is a program, so it must be activated before it can take effect.

It was first discovered in Taiwan in 1998, and is known to have infected a
variety of demo operating systems, games and even new PCs.

Jet 'prank' causes panic

A PASSENGER was probably responsible for a false crash alarm message which
caused panic on a British Airways' jumbo jet, BA said today.

Crew on the Heathrow -bound Boeing 747 had to calm 391 passengers after they
heard a pre-recorded message saying the plane was about to crash into the sea.
"We believe it was a mischievous prank and we believe a passenger was
responsible," said a spokesman. "We're treating this as seriously as we would a
bomb hoax."

Pre -recorded crash alarm messages are kept inside one of the galleys.

The spokesman said: "The message is loaded. It's just a matter of lifting a lid
and pushing the button. We believe a passenger found this button and pushed it."

The message told the passengers, who were flying in from San Francisco last
Saturday, to get into the brace position and put on life jackets because a
forced landing was imminent.

Several became distressed.

Gunman hunted

Police were today hunting a lone gunman after three people were shot as they sat
in a crowded pub watching a televised football match. The masked man walked into
the Ship Pub in Pendleton, Salford, Greater Manchester, yesterday and opened
fire as the three sat at a table. One man's condition was described as serious
by Hope Hospital, Salford, after he was shot five times.

Party fun

A "fun" party political broadcast will be screened tonight to combat Labour
fears it could be hit by voter apathy in the forthcoming local elections. Party
managers believe the Welsh and Scots are keyed up for a devolution dogfight on
May 6, but fear turnout in council elections in England will be hit by mid-term
complacency and the dominance in the news of the Kosovo crisis.

GBP 16m launch

Work on a GBP 16m Millennium Bridge across the River Thames in London will be
launched this week by Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott. The pedestrian-only
suspension bridge will be the first crossing in the capital since Tower Bridge
opened in 1894. Due to open in April, 2000, the 350-metre-long bridge will link
St Paul's Cathedral with the new Tate Gallery of Modern Art and the Globe
Theatre.

Bullies pay

Staff who are bullied at work could cost their employers up to GBP 200,000,
according to a new book, published by the Industrial Society. It quoted one
survivor of bullying who estimated that the cost to his organisation of his
experience was GBP 200,000 made up of redundancy payment, pension, sick leave
and wasted training investment.

Plain talking

Armies of volunteers were listening in at civil courts today to make sure that
judges and lawyers stick to new rules banning legal jargon. Members of the Plain
English Campaign said the modernisation programme heralded the dawn of a
"crystal clear era" in courts in England and Wales.

'Their own fault'

A TOTAL of 23% of the population think old people who sleep on the streets are
to blame for their misfortune, according to a report published by Help the Aged.

Healthy idea

Children across Britain know what healthy eating means but many still prefer
pizza and chips, leaving the "boring" food for adults. A nationwide study
commissioned as part of National School Meals Week shows that 89% of children
interviewed believed healthy eating was sensible. But none of the foods or
drinks which were considered as healthy by the children were included in their
top ten favourite meals.

Riot fans shot

POLICE shot and injured three rioters as street fighting erupted among hooligans
celebrating Feyenoord's 14th Dutch soccer league championship. Hundreds of extra
police were drafted into Rotterdam ahead of Feyenoord's match against NAC Breda
which ended in a 2-2 draw, handing Feyenoord the title for the first time since
1993. But despite the high police presence they still were unable to prevent the
worst scenes of rioting for many years in the Netherlands. After the match,
250,000 fans celebrated. Fans smashed windows, looted stores and attacked riot
police with bottles, stones and other makeshift weapons.

Train crashes

AT least five carriages of an express train were derailed today in south-eastern
Poland, injuring at least 30 people, one seriously. The accident happened near
the town of Deblin, 90 miles from Warsaw - probably because the points at a
junction were not in the right position, said a police spokeswoman.

Election due

INDIA will hold its third national elections in three years after opposition
parties failed to agree on a government to replace Prime Minister AB Vajpayee's
defeated coalition. The Cabinet has decided to recommend to the president that
he may dissolve the lower house of parliament so that fresh elections can be
called as soon as possible, said Information Minister Pramod Mahajan today.

Tax protest

Dozens of cars joined a peaceful protest through the streets of Kingston,
Jamaica, where smashed windows remain a reminder of riots against higher fuel
prices and taxes.

Just the ticket

Film giant 20th Century Fox has authorised the sale of advance tickets to the
new Star Wars prequel after pressure from US cinema-owners. Fox and LucasFilm
had banned advance ticket sales to stave off touts who they feared would hoard
the seats. Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace opens in the US on May 19.

Jazzy name

Woody Allen is a new father and has named his daughter, Bechet, after a jazz
clarinet player from the Swing era, said reports. The 63-year-old filmmaker was
photographed with the baby daughter and his 28-year-old wife, Soon-Yi Previn.
The couple would not say whether the five-month-old girl was adopted.

Student strike

Students representing 11 public universities - mostly in Mexico City - have
pledged support for a one-day campus walkout on Thursday to protest against cuts
in education funding.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              251 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 1999, Monday

Time for the frontlash

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 611 words


It is the result of fortune alone that no one has been killed in the two nail
bomb attacks in London over the past ten days. Although the devices deployed in
Brixton and now Brick Lane have been described as unsophisticated, the impact of
such explosions at short range would be deadly. These assaults are designed to
murder, maim and, above all, terrorise the neighbourhoods concerned. Whether
they have been organised by Combat 18, the self-styled "Command Council of the
White Wolves", or a different extremist faction is immaterial: they obviously
represent a direct threat from the far Right and are clearly racist in
motivation. The objective is to frighten Asian-British and black-British
communities.

This is a serious criminal development and one to which the Metropolitan Police
have rightly offered the maximum possible attention and resources. It is
important, however, to remember how small the neo-Nazi Right is in this country
and how feeble its political prospects are. These are violent acts prosecuted by
those with no chance of even a modest degree of power. To intimate otherwise is
only likely to offer warped pleasure to those responsible.

There is no evidence that these attacks represent some sort of "backlash" to the
Stephen Lawrence inquiry. This is sheer speculation that attempts to provide
logical form for what is at root pure hatred. Organisations such as Combat 18
have been around in various forms for a number of decades. Their membership has
never numbered more than a few hundred, most of whom spend relatively little
time in their ranks. It is not clear that the Macpherson report has triggered
any surge in their popularity.

These attacks may instead be the result of other factors. The ultra-Right in
Britain has been engaged in one of its frequent rounds of infighting. The
partial introduction of proportional representation has persuaded parts of the
British National Party that it should enter the electoral arena more vigorously
and "broaden its appeal" in an implausible attempt to replicate the relative
success of the French National Front. This has prompted a realignment and
possible radicalisation of the remaining strongly racist sector. The American
militias have set an example for some of these individuals to follow. The
Internet might have provided another means of disseminating information on the
construction of crude devices.

The Metropolitan Police have an opportunity not only to arrest those concerned
but also lift their standing in the eyes of ethnic minorities. The Macpherson
report portrayed a police force seemingly unwilling to recognise a distinct
category of racist crime. The reaction of the police over the past week has
shown an enormous improvement on past insensitivity. Deputy Assistant
Commissioner Alan Fry has dealt with these incidents in a direct manner and
adopted a tone that conveys an appropriate sense of urgency. He deserves the
widest possible co-operation from the public.

The nail bomb assailants wish not only to sow fear among minority communities
but to drive a wedge between them and white residents. The best possible
response is not only their swift arrest but an investigation that brings
together people of different colours. An increase in the esteem in which the
Metropolitan Police are held would be an obviously unintended but extremely
welcome consequence of the current bombing campaign. There is not a white
"backlash" either to the Lawrence report or to any other aspect of race
relations in Britain - although the ultra-Right would love to foment one. As
Lyndon Johnson once said, it is time for the "frontlash" to materialise.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              252 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 26, 1999

WHERE WILL THE BOMBERS STRIKE NEXT?;
 Racist terror campaign could move to regions

BYLINE: David Wilkes

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 799 words


ETHNIC communities across Britain could become the target of race-hate bombers,
police warned last night.

They fear the 'White Wolves,' the sinister far Right group believed to be
responsible for nail bombs in Brick Lane and Brixton in London, are ready to
spread their terror campaign beyond the capital.

Inner-city areas such as St Paul's in Bristol, Liverpool's Toxteth, and Moss
Side in Manchester are considered most at risk of a repeat of the bombing which
injured six people in Brick Lane on Saturday.

Attacks

The explosion in the heart of London's Bengali community came a week after a
similar attack in Brixton left 39 people injured.

Both attacks were designed to kill and maim innocent people and police are
convinced they are the work of a racist gang, possibly a breakaway of Combat 18,
the neo-Nazi group which is thought to have West-country links.

Now Scotland Yard is helping to co-ordinate 'defensive responses' in case of
similar racist attacks across the country. Metropolitan Police assistant
commissioner David Veness yesterday said: "We cannot rule out that other attacks
might take place outside the London area to places which have the same
characteristics as Brixton and Brick Lane."

Since the Brixton bombing, it has emerged that several leading figures in ethnic
communities have received crude threats from the self-styled White Wolves, a
splinter group of Combat 18, which has claimed responsibility for both attacks.

Among those on the hit list were Lord Taylor of Warwick the black peer who was
defeated as Tory candidate in Cheltenham in 1992.

Last night as the police hunt for the bombers was intensified, ethnic leaders in
Bristol were already taking the threats seriously and urging extra vigilance.

Peter Courtier, director of Bristol Racial Council, said: "Obviously we are
concerned about the situation and are in contact with the police.

"It is important that everybody is vigilant and reports anything suspicious to
the police."

He branded the bombings "racial terrorism" - a danger he warned of when giving
evidence to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry in Bristol in November.

Mr Courtier told the inquiry: "We must draw your attention to organised racial
terrorism, perpetrated by small groups often with neo-fascist tendencies, which
has broken out in various parts of the Avon and Somerset area.

"The Constabulary have made some positive responses when patterns have emerged.
Last October police arrested three men and seized racist posters and literature
in a dawn raid on a house in Lockleaze, Bristol.

Race-hate leaflets had earlier been distributed in the Lockleaze and Horfield
areas. In Lockleaze, black and Asian families were subjected to racist chanting.

The incidents were linked to Combat 18, which produces a magazine called
Stormer.

The magazine was described as vile and evil by a judge who jailed a member of
the group for conducting a campaign against boxer Frank Bruno's mother.

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown's phone number and address were also once
published in Stormer.

An article on the Yeovil MP spoke of his anti-racist stance, mentioned his car
being burnt out and concluded: "He doesn't deserve to live".

Combat 18 derives the numbers of its name from the position in the alphabet of
Adolf Hitler's initials.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon said part of a clock was found
at the scene of Saturday's explosion, indicating there may have been a timing
device attached to the bomb.

It was in a black Reebok sports bag left in Hanbury Street, a few hundred yards
away from where the bomb exploded.

A man picked up the bag in Hanbury Street and took it to Brick Lane police
office, which was closed at that time, as it usually is at weekends.

The man's car was parked near the police office and he put the bag in his boot
apparently intending to take it to another police station.

It was then that he realised that there might be a bomb in the bag, some 10
minutes after first picking it up.

He left the scene and shortly afterwards the bomb went off.

Deputy assistant commissioner Alan Fry said the six people injured in the blast
were of Bangladeshi origin and he added that 18 of the 39 injured in the Brixton
bomb last week were black.

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch said that two hours after Saturday's
attack, the neo-Nazi terror group Combat 18 had claimed responsibility.

In the past week police have received a "growing number" of threats from extreme
right-wing groups.

Police were last night combing through hours of CCTV tape in the hope that those
responsible have been caught on video.

Patrols throughout London have been stepped up in the last week, including the
area where Saturday night's bomb went off.



LOAD-DATE: April 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              253 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 27, 1999

Race hate threat to 'exterminate' Sarwar

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 265 words


MOHAMMAD SARWAR last night confirmed that he had been sent a death threat from
the group which has bombed two ethnic communities in London.

He said the racist terrorists had threatened to kill him unless he left the
country by the end of this year.

The letter was delivered to Mr Sarwar, Britain's only Moslem MP, last week from
the neo-Nazi White Wolves, a splinter group of the National Front. It told him
to leave Britain by December 31 or be 'exterminated'.

It is not the first time the MP for Govan has been targeted by racists.

Police were forced to intervene during the 1997 election campaign when
supporters of a British National Party candidate threatened to cause trouble at
the count on election night.

His high profile position as the only Moslem Member of Parliament has made him a
constant target of abuse from racist groups.

Mr Sarwar said: 'Police at the Commons have warned me to be on guard and I am
well aware of the security procedures. This isn't the first time I have received
threats of this kind and, unfortunately, I have known the risks throughout my
two years as an MP.

'These racists are a tiny minority in Britain and I am confident the police will
catch them.' The letter was delivered between the indiscriminate nail bomb
attacks on Brixton and Brick Lane which left 45 people of all races injured.

The group has delivered the letters to several other MPs and vowed to carry out
more bombings to help incite a race war.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said officers had made the capture of the bombers
their top priority.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              254 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 27, 1999

Police check international neo-nazi links;
Security in areas with large black populations stepped up as MI5 joins hunt for
terrorists

BYLINE: Duncan Campbell Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 782 words


Duncan Campbell Crime Correspondent

Police forces with large ethnic minority populations were yesterday taking
preventive action in anticipation of nail-bomb attacks from the racist group
responsible for the two explosions in London in the past 10 days.

The action came as Scotland Yard confirmed that it is in liaison with foreign
intelligence services about the possibility of the attacks being linked to
international neo-Nazi groups.

The assistant chief constable of Leicestershire, David Coleman, said yesterday
that his force is taking a variety of measures.

'There is a large degree of uncertainty regarding the origins or motives of the
offenders,' he said. 'In view of the substantial ethnic minority population in
Leicestershire, we are reviewing plans and taking specific measures to reduce
the likelihood of incidents taking place.'

Members of the public have been asked to report suspicious packages and owners
of closed circuit television cameras have been asked to make sure that they are
fully operational. The police hope that CCTV cameras in the Brick Lane area of
east London may yield some clues about the attack there on Saturday.

In the West Midlands, members of the public were also being asked by police to
be vigilant.A spokeswoman for West Midlands police said that people were being
asked to report all suspicious packages.

West Yorkshire, which contains Bradford with its large ethnic minority
population, is also taking precautions. A spokeswoman said that every effort was
being made to ensure the safety of the public.

In Liverpool, the Merseyside chief constable, Norman Bettison, confirmed that
his officers were liaising with the Metropolitan police.

'The reason that I joined the police was to tackle unfairness, injustice and
cruelty in the wider society,' said Mr Bettison at a racial equality conference.

'It is the evil nail bombing of people in Brixton and Brick Lane and the
senseless death of Stephen Lawrence that challenges everything I have stood
for.'

In London, further searches were being carried out in the Brick Lane area as the
anti-terrorist branch sought further clues. The branch is working with both the
racial and violent crime task force and the local police in pursuit of the
bombers. The security service, MI5, is also working on the investigation.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman confirmed that the police were working with
international intelligence agencies to see whether there was an international
link to the campaign.

The European countries with the most active neo-Nazi groups are France, Germany
and Sweden.

Prominent black, Jewish and Asian figures had received threatening mail from one
of the groups suspected of playing a part in the explosions.

Letters from the White Wolves had warned people to leave the country before the
end of the year or face 'extermination'.

It is understood that the security service believes that Combat 18, one of the
groups claiming responsibity for the attack, is a diffuse organisation with no
defined membership. It is sceptical about their claims.

Over the past few months, according to sources, MI5 has been active in
disrupting elements within Combat 18.

In the Brick Lane area, the leader of the local Tower Hamlets council, Julia
Mainwaring, said that two Bengali festivals due to take place later this month
will both go ahead, albeit with an increased police presence.

Yesterday police patrolling in the area had been stepped up.

Ms Mainwaring asked people who had heard racist conversations taking place in
local pubs after the attack to contact the police.

The MP for Bethnal Green, Oona King, said that she had received a letter from
the White Wolves days before the first explosion in Brixton.

The letter said: 'Notice is hereby given that all non-whites and Jews (defined
by blood not religion) must permanently leave the British Isles before the year
is out. Jews and non-whites who remain after 1999 has ended will be exterminated
when the clock strikes midnight on 31/12/99. The White Wolves will begin to
howl. You have been warned. Hail Britannia.'

The home secretary, Jack Straw, said yesterday the new Nazi groups were more
difficult to isolate than Irish groups.

The total reward money now on offer for information leading to the conviction of
those responsible for the nail bomb attacks has now reached pounds 50,000.

Mufti Ahmed, chief executive of the Bangladesh Welfare Association, said
yesterday that the message to the community was 'business as usual.' Analysis,
page 15 Are relations getting worse in Britain? Have your say on the Guardian
network at www.newsunlimited.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              255 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 27, 1999

Extra police guard on ethnic communities after bombings

BYLINE: By Kathie Mcinnes

SECTION: Crime: Bombs, Pg.11

LENGTH: 329 words


STAFFORDSHIRE Police is to step up its presence in ethnic minority communities
in the wake of the London nail bomb attacks.

The force is targeting 'sensitive' locations in the county to increase patrols.

These are likely to include shopping centres, places of worship and community
centres in Stoke-on-Trent.

The move follows the recent horrific attacks on Brixton and Brick Lane in the
East End London, which injured 45 people.

Far right extremists are believed to be behind the explosions - the latest
device went off in the centre of the biggest Bangladeshi community outside of
their homeland

The bombings have sparked fears of a neo-Nazi terror campaign nationwide.

Black and Asian communities are being placed on alert throughout Staffordshire,
in line with other parts of the country, as the hunt for the bombers continues.

Senior police officers are to meet representatives from ethnic minority
communities to increase vigilance and update key groups on its actions.

Police are also warning people to beware of suspect packages and businesses are
being urged to play their part by ensuring closed circuit television cameras are
working and that tapes are kept for 31 days.

Staffordshire Assistant Chief Constable Stephen House said police would do
everything they could to ensure public safety in the county.

He explained: "Staffordshire Police is treating the situation seriously in view
of the diverse communities in the county.

"All members of the public are asked to be vigilant and to contact 999 should
they see anything suspicious or believe they have information to offer. Suspect
packages should not be approached - call 999.

"The vast majority of the community in Britain are law abiding people who
completely abhor such acts of violence.

"They are as anxious as everyone to catch these criminals and bring them to
justice."

Jamaican-born Stan Faulkner, who now lives in Stoke-on-Trent, said: "This is a
good idea to make people alert of the situation."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1999 The Sentinel

                              256 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                 April 27, 1999

Extra police guard on ethnic communities

BYLINE: By Kathie Mcinnes

SECTION: Public Services: Police, Pg.11

LENGTH: 322 words


STAFFORDSHIRE Police is to step up its presence in ethnic minority communities
in the wake of the London nail bomb attacks.

The force is targeting 'sensitive' locations in the county to increase patrols.

These are likely to include shopping centres, places of worship and community
centres in Stoke-on-Trent.

The move follows the recent horrific attacks on Brixton and Brick Lane in
London, which injured 45 people.

Far right extremists were behind the explosions - the latest device went off in
the centre of the biggest Bangladeshi community outside of their homeland

The bombings have sparked fears of a neo-Nazi terror campaign nationwide.Black
and Asian communities are being placed on alert throughout Staffordshire, in
line with other parts of the country, as the hunt for the bombers continues.

Officers are to meet representatives from ethnic minority communities to
increase vigilance and update key groups on its actions.

Police are also warning people to beware of suspect packages and businesses are
being urged to play their part by ensuring closed circuit television cameras are
working and that tapes are kept for 31 days.

Staffordshire Assistant Chief Constable Stephen House said police would do
everything they could to ensure public safety.

He explained: "Staffordshire police are treating the situation seriously in view
of the diverse communities in the county.

"All members of the public are asked to be vigilant and to contact 999 should
they see anything suspicious or believe they have information to offer.

"Suspect packages should not be approached - call 999.

"The vast majority of the community in Britain are law abiding people who
completely abhor such acts of violence.

"They are as anxious as everyone to catch these criminals and bring them to
justice."

Stan Faulkner, originally from Jamaica who now lives in Stoke-on-Trent, said:
"This is a good idea to make people alert of the situation."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 1999 The Sentinel

                              257 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 27, 1999

Help us find the nail bombers

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.13

LENGTH: 593 words



HOME Secretary Jack Straw yesterday urged the public to play a lead role in the
hunt for the race-hate bombers who have brought fear to ethnic communities
across Britain.

Mr Straw told MPs that the Anti-Terrorist Branch of the Metropolitan Police was
leading the inquiry into two nail bomb attacks in London.

Police believe the incidents in the Brixton and Brick Lane areas were both
racially motivated, and forces across the country are now on alert.

The so-called White Wolves, a splinter group of Combat 18 which has claimed
responsibility for both incidents, are the prime suspects.

It is feared that inner-city areas such as St Paul's in Bristol, Moss Side,
Manchester and Handsworth, Birmingham, could suffer similar sick attacks.

Mr Straw asked the public to play its part in fighting the threat, admitting the
authorities did not know where the terrorists might next decide to plant bombs.

In an emergency Commons statement on the terror campaign, he warned: "While the
perpetrators of this violence remain at large there is plainly a risk that they
may strike again.

"We have to meet that threat with vigilance but without panic.

"I want to make clear that any attack on these communities is an attack on all
British people and the whole of British society.

"I believe that this kind of outrage simply strengthens the resolve of every
decent person in this country to reject racism in all its forms and to work
towards a multi-racial, multi-cultural society."

The search for the bombers is Scotland Yard's top priority, with senior officers
aware their success will be closely monitored by ethnic communities after the
Stephen Lawrence inquiry.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon said the Brick Lane bomb -
exactly a week after the Brixton explosion in which 39 people were injured - was
clearly designed to maim and kill innocent people.

Six people were injured on Saturday when the device went off inside a car on the
busy street - the centre of the biggest expatriate Bangladeshi community in the
world.

In the past week police have received a "growing number" of threats from extreme
Right-wing groups.

Assistant commissioner David Veness said he feared the bombers could strike
outside London.

Bristol, Manchester, Birmingham, Luton, Bradford, Leicester, Leeds, Nottingham,
Cardiff and Glasgow have all been put on alert for attacks.

In Liverpool the black community was considering its own security patrols.

Bradford's community leaders appealed for calm, fearing the formation of
vigilante groups.

South Wales police stepped up patrols to reassure ethnic communities and
Nottingham community leaders urged "streetwise" youths to be alert for anything
out of the ordinary.

Police are still going through hours of CCTV tape in the hope that those
responsible for the London attacks have been caught on video.

Saturday's bomb was found in a black Reebok sports bag left in Hanbury Street, a
few hundred yards from where it exploded.

A man picked up the bag and took it to Brick Lane police office, which was
closed, before putting it in his car where it went off.

Tory leader William Hague visited Brick Lane last night and said: "It is an
absolutely despicable crime.

"It is very important that people of all parties be clear that this is not just
an attack on this community but on everybody in the country, of all communities,
of all creeds and all political beliefs."

Tower Hamlets councillor Kumar Murshid called for all far-right fringe groups to
be outlawed.


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              258 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                 April 28, 1999

Community unites in face of racial attacks;
 Agenda

BYLINE: Britain's ethnic minority communities have been put on the alert after
two terrifying incidents in London. Crime reporter Imogen Sellers investigates

SECTION: Pg.11

LENGTH: 884 words


THE ink had barely dried on the Stephen Lawrence inquiry report when the Brixton
bomb tore through the heart of one of London's liveliest multi-racial
communities.

This first attack was seen as a shocking act of vicious brutality.

But the second bomb, this time in the Bengali community of Brick Lane in London,
sent shock waves up and down the country and has left people wondering: where it
will end.

Rumours that the White Wolves, the sinister far right group believed to be
responsible for both nail bomb attacks, are ready to spread their terror
campaign beyond the capital are not being taken lightly.

Inner-city areas such as St Paul's in Bristol, Liverpool's Toxteth, and Moss
Side in Manchester are considered most at risk of repeat attacks, but that does
not stop the feeling of outrage and vulnerability reverberating further afield.

In Bath the attacks, which were clearly designed to kill and maim innocent
people, have been fiercely condemned.

Despite the relatively small ethnic community in the city, the events have
brought people together in a determined bid to stand firm against such acts of
terrorism.

There is an unequivocal belief that such acts must not threaten the existence of
a multi-racial society.

Monira Ahmed Chowdhury, director of the Bath and North East Somerset Racial
Equality Council, said: "With the first bombing people were shocked and outraged
that something like this should happen. But with the second people started to
feel alarmed.

"I think this episode has made people feel more vulnerable.

"Locally we are talking with the police and other community groups in an effort
to decide what is the best way to tackle these issues.

"Although we don't believe we are going to be the subject of serious attack we
would still want people to be vigilant and report anything to the police.

"It has made us all think more about our security," she added.

"Although the bombs went off in areas with predominantly mixed ethnic
communities it is an attack on society as a whole.

"Although people may have racist attitudes, I think these actions have horrified
most people and it is important that as many people as possible are seen to
condemn the actions."

She said her greatest fears were for the effect such incidents would have on
young people growing up in British ethnic communities.

"Young people are very conscious about what is happening and it is making them
think: 'Is this a society I want to live in'?

"These youngsters are second or third generation British - this is their home
and yet they are made to feel vulnerable.

"The ethnic cleansing in Kosovo is another issue that only adds to their
feelings of insecurity about racial intolerance."

Despite the fact that she feels such threats will not directly affect people
living in the Bath area, she is still calling on residents to be vigilant.

She urged anyone who receives racist mail or phone calls to report them to the
police straightaway.

But far from damaging relations between the black and white communities, she
said the bombings had had the opposite effect.

She said: "People have seen the high priority given by the police to catching
the perpetrators and I think it has improved relations between the police and
the black and ethnic communities, who are working together on this."

A statement issued by the national Commission for Racial Equality added: "Far
from succeeding in their aim of setting people against each other, these attacks
have brought communities together to stand firm against such acts of violence.

"The sense of outrage and revulsion felt across all communities reflects growing
support for decisive action to eliminate all threats to a multi- racial
society."

Between April 1998 and March 1999 Bath and North East Somerset has seen 78
reported cases of racial harassment of some form.

Verbal racial abuse is most common. Eight cases have resulted in injury. Seven
families have had to be rehoused as a consequence of racist attacks and four
families are still waiting to be moved.

The attacks have been targeted against all groups - from Afro Caribbean and
Asian residents to Middle Eastern, European and Irish people. There were also a
number of attacks on foreign language students visiting the area.

According to B&NES REC most of the cases occurred in the central Bath area while
other incidents occurred in the Whiteway, Twerton, Foxhill and Larkhall areas.
These have been in the workplace, in schools and neighbourhoods.

Acting superintendent of Bath police, Alan Bailey, said: "Anybody who plants a
device that is intended to hurt or maim on such an indiscriminate basis must be
caught and we would ask for the public's help."

The police are warning people to report any suspicious incidents and to be on
the alert for packages left unattended. They are also encouraging people to
contact them if they receive any form of racist mail or any other suspicious
package in the post.

According to Scotland Yard the racist gang believed to be responsible for the
bombings, possibly a breakaway unit of Combat 18, the neo-Nazi group, is thought
to have west country links.

Now Scotland Yard is helping to co-ordinate "defensive responses" in case of
similar racist attacks across the country.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              259 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           April 28, 1999, Wednesday

DRIVEN BY HATE

BYLINE: Andy Richards

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1893 words


AS RACE-HATE EXTREMISTS STRIKE TERROR THROUGHOUT BRITAIN, WE ASK: WHAT TURNS
YOUNG MEN INTO FASCISTS? Nail bomb terror attacks in London have led to the Wes
t Midlands being placed on the alert for racist outrage. Mail man ANDY RICHARDS
asks what makes young men rally to the race hate banner of the far right
extremists.
  THIRTY-THREE years ago controversial British fascist leader Oswald Mosley made
a chilling prediction. He proclaimed that at the turn of the century, the cause
he had championed would return.

He told supporters: "My ideas are way ahead of their time. They were in the '30s
and they are today. The British people will be ready for them in 30 years at the
end of the 20th century, not now."

As we approach the millennium, his disturbing forecast seems to be coming
alarmingly true.

In the past fortnight, London has been rocked by two racist nail bomb attacks
targeting ethnic minority communities, and the West Midlands has been placed on
the alert for further outrages.

Responsibility has been claimed by the extreme neo-Nazi group named Combat 18,
some of whose members are thought to have previously belonged to the likes of
the British National Party and the National Front.

Just hours before the second nail bomb outrage at Brick Lane in London's East
End, the National Front made its own shockwaves in a leafy Midland town.

Flag-waving members chanting racist slogans took to the streets of Kidderminster
for a controversial march after initially planning to parade in Worcester.

Intelligence officers filmed the group along the one-mile march which was
roundly condemned by community and ethnic minority leaders and residents.

Racist groups have also sent death threats to black and Asian Parliamentarians,
including Birmingham-born Lord Taylor of Warwick.

Bloody rampage

Meanwhile, last week two teenage killers armed with guns and bombs murdered 13
schoolpals and a teacher in a bloody rampage in the US which shook the world.

Eric Harris and Dylan Klebold were members of The Trenchcoat Mafia and idolised
Adolf Hitler, choosing the Nazi leader's birthday as the date for their massacre
at Columbine High School.

Elsewhere in Germany, France, Italy, Austria, Spain, Croatia and Russia there
has been an upsurge in racism and fascism.

But what attracts young people to right-wing extremism and neo-Nazism? How can
they turn to racial hatred?

Dr Mike Rowe, a Midland public order expert, says: "Many people think of those
involved as skinheads with only two brain cells, and that description may
perhaps fit some of them.

"But it would be wrong to stereotype them all like that.

"If you look back at the history of fascism and nationalism, there has been an
awful lot of people from middle and upper class backgrounds.

"I would not go too far down the line suggesting that members of Combat 18 are
all unemployed and on the fringe of society.

"Yes, there are those like that, but there are others who are educated,
professional people," adds Dr Rowe, who lectures at Leicester University.

"You have to keep in mind firstly that not many people overall are attracted to
these kind of groups. Of those who are, it is often their way of trying to make
sense of the world as they see it.

"Perhaps they may be aggrieved about their lack of progress in society and are
looking to attribute blame for their position.

"Some are looking at ways of expressing their own failures while others are
ideologically attracted to fascism and nationalism."

MIKE Whine, director of the defence division for the Board of Deputies of
British Jews, says there probably three main factors.

"Firstly, you have to remember that in the early days of Nazism, it immediately
attracted the street thugs and bullies," he says. "There was an immediate
attraction for those sort of people.

"Secondly, you will find that most are white, working class youths who are
simply blatantly racist and loathe all blacks, Asians and Jews. Neo-Nazi
extremism is a focus for their hatred.

"Thirdly, these groups go out actively and recruit among the hooligans on the
football terraces.

"Moreover, people who had been in the now staid groups such as the NF or the
BNP, who had been perhaps looking for violent action on the streets and not
getting it, are given the sort of activity they want by joining the likes of
Combat 18."

"But some are highly educated," he says. "And that is the danger."

He agrees with Dr Rowe that not all will look like the archetypal skinhead with
boots, a beer gut and tattoos. They may go to work in grey suits, white shirts
and ties, he says. They may be movers and shakers.

And without a doubt many are computer literate, using the Internet to link with
similar fanatics around the world.

Mr Whine says he is "not surprised at all" by the national and global upsurge in
extreme racism.

"The most dynamic of all politics at the moment are the Far Right," he explains.
"There have been significant events in the last few years which have served to
perk them up.

Further outrages

"Among these are the collapse of communism, the re-unification of Germany,
campaigns against asylum seekers - particularly in Germany - and the Timothy
McVeigh bombing in Oklahoma City.

"Indeed, I believe that most neo-Nazis no longer look towards Adolf Hitler but
identify themselves with the American idea of leadership resistance.

"They no longer dress up and parade. Instead, they carry out acts of violence in
small groups."

Worryingly, he believes that further outrages committed by such groups may be
imminent.

"Assuming that the two bombs so far are part of a pattern and part of a
campaign, it is quite likely they will continue.

"If we are honest, the bomb attacks so far, while being potentially deadly, have
been very amateurish, not much more than fireworks with nails.

"Bomb-making information is readily available on the Internet and the fear is
that we could see the development of much more sophisticated devices.

"Everyone really needs to be extremely vigilant. People have to be aware of what
is going on around them, particularly in areas perhaps where there are Muslim
mosques or Sikh temples.

"If they see anything suspicious, notice people behaving oddly or asking strange
questions, they should contact the police immediately."

Six people, five men and a woman, were injured in Saturday's blast in Brick
Lane, the heart of one of the country's largest Bangladeshi communities.

A total of 39 people were injured when the Brixton bomb exploded a week earlier.
No warnings were given before either attack.

DRIVEN OUT: Asad Ali and his family fled their Walsall home after racist attacks
and threats.

Fringe group that thrives on violence

COMBAT 18, the neo-Nazi group which has claimed responsibility for the nail bomb
attacks in Brixton and Brick Lane, was formed in 1992.

It was believed to have been set up by a violent, hard-right fringe of the
British National Party and the National Front which had become disillusioned
with the "softening" of the approach of those two organisations.

It derives its name from the first and eighth letters of the alphabet, A and H,
the initials of Adolf Hitler.

It gained national notoriety three years later when a football match between
Ireland and England in Dublin had to be abandoned following hooliganism
orchestrated by its members.

At one stage it drew its followers almost exclusively from football thugs
attached to Chelsea, Arsenal, Millwall, Charlton, Reading, Oxford and
Portsmouth.

But it has mounted recruitment drives targeting the armed forces and churned out
race-hate literature.

It is believed to have formed a cell in the Bloxwich area of Walsall and was
recently blamed for forcing a terrified Asian family to leave the town.

Father-of-four Mr Asad Ali claimed his family were attacked and his home had its
front door smashed by racist thugs. Racist graffiti, including a Combat 18 logo,
was daubed on walls.

"I can no longer live in white areas of Walsall," he said. "My wife is terrified
and wants to live with her own community.

"I think it is a shame but I have to respect her wishes. I can't understand
people like this. We all have the same blood in our veins."

The Right has long associations with the Bloxwich area, which was an important
centre for the Mosley movement in the 1930s.

Both the BNP and the NF have distanced themselves from Combat 18, saying they
have nothing to do with it or with any extremist activity.

"They distance themselves and have tried to maintain they are not linked with
any violence because they want to gain respectability," says Dr Rowe.

"But there is plenty of documentary evidence linking former members of the BNP
with Combat 18."

Other far right neo-Nazi groups include the White Wolves, an offshoot of Combat
18. The group is named after a Serbian terrorist group which has targeted
Kosovars in Yugoslavia, and its membership is only small.

But in recent weeks around 25 people have reported receiving stencilled death
threats from it, including Bethnal Green and Bow MP Oona King.

Meanwhile, the American white supremacist movement, the Ku Klux Klan, is said to
be gaining strength in Britain with leaders claiming a near 3,000-strong
membership.

A cell is rumoured to operate in the Walsall area. In recent years stickers have
appeared in the town centre and a burning cross was discovered on a hill in
Brownhills.

Nationally it has been linked to a growing number of attacks on Jewish, black
and Asian people and is believed to be trying to capitalise on the growth of
Scottish and Welsh nationalism.

SPECTRE OF FAR-RIGHT HAUNTS THE WORLD

BRITAIN is not alone in facing the threat of right-wing extremism and racism.

Other global hotspots include:

France: Organised racism is very strong and there is much random racist and
anti-Semitic violence.

Germany: The drive to reunite the country stirred up nationalism again, and
there has been a wave of fascist terror and murder.

Belgium: An extreme right group called Vlaams Blok is demanding the forced
expulsion of foreigners.

Austria: Europe's biggest far-right party, Jorg Haider's Freedom movement, which
has six MEPs, demands compulsory repatriation of foreigners.

Italy: Has had to ban its racist Movimento Politico organisation.

Spain: Racist incidents since 1986 have tripled against gypsies and black
people, and doubled towards Arabs.

Croatia: The country was a magnet for Nazi paramilitaries from all over Europe
during the war against the Serbs.

Serbia: The ultra nationalist Radical Serbian Party has more than 80 seats in
the Yugoslav parliament.

Russia: Neo-Nazis stamp around in black uniforms and are members of the sinister
Russian National Unity Party.

USA: The biggest section of the extreme right wing is the Militia Movement which
is heavily armed and opposes Federal government power.

WATCH OUT

HANYONE who sees anything suspicious or with information should ring their local
police station or can ring Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist hotline 0800 789321.
All calls are in strict confidence.

THE UGLY FACE OF RACISM : White supremacist marchers belonging to the Aryan
Nations group take to the streets in the USA.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REIGN OF TERROR: The nail bomb attacks in Brixton and Brick Lane have
created a climate of fear on the streets of Britain.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              260 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 29, 1999
                              Correction Appended

Unforgiven soldier;
Portrait / From IRA gun-runner to Nazi sympathiser, Francis Stuart has chosen a
difficult - and extraordinary - path through life. On the eve of his 97th
birthday, the man Yeats described as Ireland's great literary hope talks to
Patrick Cooney

BYLINE: Patrick Cooney

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1798 words


'I had this machine gun, it knocked out I don't know how many bullets a minute.
Lots, I should think.' Francis Stuart locks and loads an imaginary weapon. 'And
I've often - well, occasionally wished I still had it.' A crooked smile develops
as he sprays his imaginary gun in an arc. He is telling me of his stint as a
republican gunman, eight decades past, during Ireland's civil war.

Stuart more than most has a reason to expect a confrontation. At the ripe age of
97, he is still the Irish establishment's public enemy number one. In a year
that has seen massive change in Ireland, with ancient wrongs being soothed, the
balm of forgiveness has not yet been extended to Stuart. But then he is used to
indifference; he is the most neglected writer in the republic.

Penguin have included Stuart's work in their Modern Classics imprint, and
younger writers such as Colm Tobin and Dermot Bolger have saluted his books, yet
you will not find them in many of Dublin's bookshops. Francis Stuart does not
exist because he is dangerous, because for over six decades he has stood outside
the mainstream, a constant threat to the complacency of middlebrow career
novelists.

In his time he has been branded, in no particular order, IRA gunman, gambler,
adulterer, drunkard, Nazi, refugee and literary lion. With careful PR and a few
stints on the New York lit-crit scene, he should have become a hip old man for
the likes of Nick Cave to eulogise. But he didn't.

Why this neglect? Is there something awful, unspeakable in Stuart's long past?
Quite simply, yes. During the second world war Stuart made radio broadcasts from
Berlin that led him to be labelled 'Ireland's Lord Haw Haw'. Ironic, when you
consider that Haw Haw, alias William Joyce, was born in Ireland but had little
time for it.

After nearly 100 years of living, Stuart looks remarkably young and fresh. Even
when seated, he has an immense angular stature; he looks damned good and knows
it. 'Oh, he's very vain,' his third wife, Finola, smirks.

'My memory is not what it was,' he announces. 'You can try chronological, but
we'll probably have to go roundabout.' In 1932, after reading one of Stuart's
early books, the poet WB Yeats was moved to write: 'If luck comes to his aid he
will be our great writer.' Stuart was 29. He had married society beauty Iseult
Gonne. At the epicentre of Dublin's political and artistic life, he seemed well
placed for success. Yet he'd already joined 'the awkward squad', and taken an
unpopular stance a decade before the civil war. He'd sided with the republican
faction who opposed the Anglo-Irish treaty of 1921.

'I never had any hesitation about joining the republicans. The whole map of the
world was pink in my day, and we were the first to break away from imperialism.
I had to support that.' He considers that he saw little real action - a gun
battle on Dublin's Amiens Street, a journey to Europe on an arms buying trip -
but it was still enough to get him imprisoned.

When freed, Stuart was welcomed back by the deeply nationalist Gonne-Yeats
salon. His first collection of poetry, written during his incarceration, was
called We Have Kept The Faith.

After its publication, in 1923, Stuart decided to try and make a career out of
writing. 'I had this idea, quite ridiculous really, that I could live on novel
writing,' he laughs. 'And so I did. . . miserably. I never really enjoy writing.
It took a lot out of me.' Nonetheless, he was productive. Book followed book -
13 in all between 1931 and 1939, and most of them published by respectable
publishers such as Cape, Collins and Gollancz. 'I was trying to write to order,
and with the praise of Yeats and others, well it didn't really do me any good
whatsoever. I'd start not too bad a book, write intensively for five or six
weeks, then sit back and realise it was rubbish, and I'd tear it up. Not the
books, just odd chapters.' The books weren't at all bad, but failed
commercially. He found release in London with his friend and fellow writer Liam
O'Flaherty. According to Stuart's biographer Geoffrey Elborn, both men roistered
round the West End blowing cash on horse racing, drink and women.

Stuart admonishes Elborn, saying the biography made him look like 'some sort of
gadabout. Not the case at all. I was very poor, with a wife and two young
children and feeling very unhappy with lack of success and such.' Ironically, it
was Iseult who helped ease the pressure by organising a lecture tour of Germany
for her husband in early 1939. Stuart embarked on the tour. At the outbreak of
war, he returned to Ireland, but went back to Berlin in 1940 to take up a post
as lecturer in English and Irish literature at the University of Berlin.

'Domestic trouble had quite a lot to do with it,' he admits.

'But I've always believed the writer should be there, at important times,
historic times, reporting.' It was in this period in Stuart's life that a
controversy began that would dog his career for over half a century. In 1940, he
was asked by the German ministry of propaganda to write broadcasts for
transmission to the UK and Ireland. As a Republican, and essentially a neutral
in the conflict, he accepted, with the proviso that he was not forced to write
anything of an anti-Semitic nature.

As with many writers of the thirties, his interest in extremist ideology stemmed
from a dislike of the corruption and decay he saw in the old order. 'I did see
Hitler, and in hindsight obviously I was wrong, as a kind of contemporary
Samson, a superman who would tear down the whole political and social system in
England and Ireland.' In 1942, he began to broadcast to his homeland in person.
Recordings and transcripts exist, but according to Elborn they are
'unexceptional'. 'Praise of Ireland's neutrality dominates, but practical
policies or the outcome of the war are dealt with vaguely.' They are not, it
seems, the rantings of a committed fascist. In 1944, after threats from the
authorities, Stuart signed off: 'If I don't speak any more, it will be because I
can no longer say what I think is the truth.' The truth being? 'I thought the
war propaganda to the allies was dominated by the Americans, who gave a very
one-sided view.

I was in a position to correct this, and I did my duty.' It's important to
remember Stuart's republican credentials when discussing the broadcasts. A
substantial proportion of Irish republicans have always seen Britain's
disadvantage as Ireland's advantage. The French had helped the United Irishman's
Rising of 1798, and the Germans had sent arms to the rebels of Easter 1916. The
only real enemy was Britain.

Stuart believes few heard the broadcasts. 'They came through at Athlone. I
remember the Germans said I should express the anti-Soviet side, but I refused.
I thought they were very slyly attacked.' Remaining in Berlin with a lover,
Madeleine Meiszner, he endured the saturation bombing that destroyed the city.
The French arrested and questioned them, then released them to drift through the
chaos of Europe. It was in the ranks of the swelling refugee army that Stuart at
last found his own unique voice.

He wrote of the food queues and internment camps, producing a string of stark
post-war novels. Redemption and The Pillar Of Cloud both have a depth his
previous work lacked. Critical praise followed, but again he had little
commercial success. 'Looking back, people didn't want to read about prison and
food queues, it was too close.' A succession of books followed, none of which
paid the rent, and Stuart and Meiszner returned to London in 1954, where he
survived on menial work. In 1956, his latest offering was refused by Gollancz,
and he went to around for the next decade planning 'the big book'.

Provisionally entitled We The Condemned, and eventually published as Black List
Section H, the book was the autobiographical, sprawling monster that brought him
back in from the shadows. It charts the life of 'H' (Stuart) from marriage to
Iseult to internment at war's end.

'I knew it would be an important book because it dealt with historic events.' He
allows a wintry smile.

'It was also very well written.' The book was published in 1971, when the
distance from the conflict meant a new, more tolerant readership could embrace
it. Although it didn't see UK publication until 1975, Black List and the now
septuagenarian author became a cult.

But success did not soften Stuart's stance. In 1984 he introduced a book of
protest against Ronald Reagan's visit to Ireland. While most of the population
waved stars and stripes, Stuart roared from the book, 'An unofficial but
resounding. . . No!' Stuart has stubbornly refused to assume the cosy mantle of
grand old literary man, and in doing so has retained his credibility with
younger readers. Throughout the eighties and nineties, he has continued to
produce poetry and prose at a rate that would tax his younger peers, and in 1991
was admitted to Aosdana, a state-appointed artists' club.

'It's all quite irrelevant to my mind,' he says. 'It's just the money (members
get an annual grant of pounds 8,000). It's a mistake, all this self-regard. I
think literature is made too much of.' Controversy still follows the old man.
His interview for the Channel 4 documentary A Great Hatred in 1997 led to him
been accused once again of anti-Semitism, and 'all the fuss' frothed up again.
But Stuart maintains he was clumsily questioned and quoted out of context. Only
a skilful defence by the writer Anthony Cronin saved him from expulsion from
Aosdana, by showing the lack of a single anti-Semitic sentence not only in the
wartime broadcasts but also in work stretching back seven decades. The motion
was thrown out.

'I thought the programme was scurrilous. They didn't get what they wanted, so
they blatantly put words into my mouth.' He won't say any more on the subject,
but felt vindicated enough to make his peace with any offended Jews. In a recent
interview, his voice crackled on Irish radio: 'I'm intensely sorry for the hurt
I gave to any people by appearing to support the Nazi regime.' He's tiring now,
and a long pause descends. You tend to forget with the youthful mop of hair and
animated face that he's nearly a centenarian. As I rise to leave, his voice
breaks the stillness.

'As a writer, I write for lonely and isolated people all over the world.' His
gaze drifts out to the bleak mountains. 'I am, I believe, a lonely and isolated
person.' He turns towards me and smiles.

'But I'm not unhappy.' Francis Stuart's books are available from Columbia
Mercier Distribution, 55a Spruce Avenue, Stilorgan Industrial Estate, Blackrock,
Co Dublin, Ireland. Black List Section H is available from Lilliput Books, 62
Sitric Road, Dublin 7.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 3, 1999

CORRECTION:  In our article, Unforgiven soldier, pages 8 and 9, G2, April 29,
about the Irish writer, Francis Stuart, we mentioned William Joyce (Lord Haw
Haw) of whom we said "(he) was born in Ireland, but had little time for it".
Joyce was actually born in New York of an Irish father and a Lancashire mother.

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              261 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 29, 1999, Thursday

POLICE CHIEFS REJECT COMBAT 18 THREAT UNLIKELY

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 380 words


SCOTLAND YARD chiefs revealed yesterday that Combat 18, the neo-Nazi
organisationthat has claimed responsibility for two nail bombings in London, had
been infiltrated by the police and that the group was unlikely to be behind
thecampaign.

Police intelligence indicated that its membership amounts to the equivalent of
"no more than two football teams", a senior Scotland Yard officer said,
suggesting that C18 is incapable of carrying out a sustained race terror
campaign across Britain.

The officer said: "We were doing things against Combat 18, six weeks, two months
ago. We were after their music. We were after the CD industry that fuels the
race hate industry, and the concerts. It's where they get their funding from."

Last night a spokesman for the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight said that
Combat 18's music sales were a "massive international operation".

The group sells CDs by skinhead rock bands including No Remorse, Black Shirts,
War Hammer and Razor's Edge.

The Searchlight spokesman said: "They do runs of around 1,000 CDs, which cost
only about pounds 1 to produce and sell for around pounds 15 each. They are also
merchandising the bands' T-shirts, posters and badges."

The Scotland Yard officer indicated that the outrages in Brixton and Brick Lane,
in south and east London, which injured 45 people in total, were likely to be
the work of a small breakaway group or a single racist. The officer said the
real bomber may have issued a claim in the name of C18, to hide his own
identity. He said: "Beware the flag of convenience of Combat 18. A lot of very
strange people line up behind C18."

Among several far-right groups to have claimed theyplanted the Brixton bomb,
which ripped through a busy Saturday market 12 days ago, are the obscure
"English National Party" and the White Wolves. The latter are believed to be a
renegade gang linked to C18 and based in the north of England.

Yesterday in the House of Commons, the Prime Minister, Tony Blair, said the bomb
attacks were not just attacks on the Afro-Caribbean and Bangladeshi communities
but the "whole of British society".

The reward to catch thebombers has risen to pounds 70,000, thought to be the
biggest ever offered for information about a crime in London.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              262 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 29, 1999

Real dangers that lie behind racist bombs;
 Analysis

BYLINE: SUSIE WELDON

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 936 words


THE two nail bomb attacks in London have struck fear into black and Asian
communities throughout Britain, including Bristol.

Batook Pandya, director of the city's Support Against Racist Incidents (SARI),
has taken dozens of calls from worried people.

"It has shaken the community," he says. "I've taken calls from all over the
country. And I was just on the street to buy something a few minutes ago and two
people stopped me, both anxious about it."

We do not yet know who is responsible for the bombings at Brixton and Brick Lane
in the last ten days, or even if the same person or group carried out both
attacks.

But as both areas are two of Britain's longest-established black and Asian
communities, it seems clear that the motive is racial hatred.

Extreme right-wing groups have been eager to claim responsibility for the
attacks, including the neo-Nazi organisation Combat 18. This tiny group of
fascist thugs takes its name from the first and the eighth letters in the
alphabet - Adolf Hitler's initials.

But it is another neo-Nazi group, the White Wolves, which has become the key
suspect in Scotland Yard's hunt for the bombers.

Not only did it recently circulate details of a nail bomb timer like those used
in the Brixton and Brick Lane attacks, but it also threatened to kill all
non-whites and Jews two days before the attacks began.

Now other mixed race communities throughout Britain, including Bristol and
Cardiff, have been warned that they too could become targets for the bombers.

So is Britain on the verge of a new war of race terrorism?

Scotland Yard is certainly taking the matter seriously and has made the hunt for
the bombers its top priority, drafting in extra detectives.

Mike Whine of the Board of Jewish Deputies says the police are right to be
concerned; although unsophisticated, both nail bombs were extremely effective
and it was only a matter of chance that there were no fatalities.

But he adds: "I wouldn't call it a race war. Modern neo-Nazi ideology owes very
little to Hitler and black shirts and goose-stepping. It's more about individual
acts of violence.

"It is domestic terrorism from a different direction - if you plant a bomb in
Brixton and the East End of London, you can do it in the middle of Bristol
shopping centre.

"But it is domestic terrorism with no particular target; they want to hit out at
the state."

The South-west is by no means immune to racist thugs. According to Mr Pandya,
Bristol has its own Combat 18 cell here although its members are under close
observation by Special Branch.

A British version of the Ku Klux Klan with connections to Combat 18 is known to
have members in South Wales.

And Bristol Racial Equality Council director Peter Courtier warned of the danger
of racial terrorism five months ago.

Last November, he told the Stephen Lawrence inquiry in Bristol there had been
"organised racial terrorism perpetrated by small groups often with neo-fascist
tendencies" in parts of the Avon and Somerset area.

The number involved in these right-wing groups is tiny, according to Mr Whine.
Combat 18 has only about 50 to 60 members and the White Wolves could have as few
as six.

"We are not talking about a great many people - but it doesn't take many to
carry out an act of violence," he says.

Their small size and lack of influence could be one reason for the bombings,
says Mr Pandya. "I think these groups know that they've not had any headway
politically so they have started this. It is an attack on the whole community."

This view is echoed by Ross Slater, news editor of the New Nation, a newspaper
aimed at the black and Afro-Caribbean community.

"People who are hard core racists are very marginalised in British society and I
think that the bomb attacks are partly a reflection of their frustration and
their weakness," he says.

"Most Continental countries have a far right which polls at ten to 20 per cent
of the vote. Here it is very very tiny, something like 0.001 per cent."

Mr Slater believes the bombers may also have been provoked by the outcry over
the killing of black teenager Stephen Lawrence. "The amount of media attention
paid to the Stephen Lawrence inquiry would have made racists in Britain
furious," he says.

So far, the advice given by police to ethnic communities is to stay calm and
keep watchful. But what happens if the attacks continue? Some community leaders
fear this will lead to a hardening of attitudes - on both sides of the race
divide.

"My fear is that if it continues, the next thing will be that the youngsters who
were born and brought up in this country and who won't accept racism, will ask:
Do we fight back?" says Mr Pandya.

His fears of a backlash are echoed elsewhere; Joe Allen, a community leader in
Leicester, another city with a big black and Asian population, says: "If this
continues, you will get people organising.

"Most are not going to lie down and take this kind of attack. There is a danger
of vigilante-style operations."


Not everyone agrees, however. Mr Slater says: "What these people want above all
else is that there will be a race war. They hope it will provoke blacks and
Asians to attack whites but I don't think that will happen.

"If people have confidence that racial incidents will be fairly and competently
dealt with by the police, then there is no need for citizens to take matters
into their hands."

Let us hope that Mr Slater is right. Britain is a broadly tolerant nation; the
last thing we need is to be bounced into a race war by a bunch of thugs.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              263 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             April 30, 1999, Friday

STUDENT AT QUEEN'S IN BOMB PLOT, COURT TOLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 566 words


BRITAIN'S security services and the police foiled a plot by republican
terrorists to bomb targets in London after last year's Good Friday Agreement,
the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

The terrorists intended to use a Semtex bomb and six incendiary devices to cause
explosions likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to property, alleged
Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting.

But unknown to them they were subjects of a joint security operation, said Mr
Sweeney.

On July 10 last year, police arrested three men, he told the jury.

Anthony Hyland, 26, no address given; Liam Grogan, 22, from Naas, Co Kildare;
and Darren Mulholland, 20, from Dundalk, Co Louth; have all denied that with
others unknown they conspired to cause explosions between June 1 and July 11
last year.

Mr Sweeney alleged the three "were party, with others, to an Irish republican
terrorist conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom.

"They made various trips from Ireland to London in early July last year."

When arrested, Hyland declined to give any details about himself to the police.

Mulholland was at the end of the first year of a four-year theoretical physics
course at Queen's University in Belfast, where he rented a room in Rugby Avenue,
the court was told.

He allegedly claimed to the police he was in London because he was thinking of
transferring his studies and wanted to get a feel of the city.

Mr Sweeney said Grogan told police he had finished a commerce degree in Dublin
and was in London to assist his friend and to check out the viability of a
college place for himself in London.

But the prosecution alleged that their real reason for being there was to "play
their parts in the conspiracy".

Hyland and Mulholland had flown in separately from Dublin on July 3 - Hyland
spending the night at a flat in Belsize Park and Mulholland in Sussex Gardens,
Paddington. They flew back - again separately - the following day.

While there, Mulholland reconnoitred furnishing and bedding shops in the Fulham
Road area - potential targets for incendiary bombs, the prosecution alleged.

Hyland bought two mobile phones at different shops in London, using false names,
said Mr Sweeney. On July 8-9 he returned from Dublin via the Holyhead ferry with
a rucksack.

The prosecution said the inference was that its contents included the Semtex
bomb and the incendiaries.

On July 9, Grogan flew from Dublin to London with a holdall and booked into a
hotel in Sussex Gardens, using a false name and address, he alleged.

Hyland spent the night at a flat in Belsize Park and Grogan at the hotel. "By
whatever route they got here - by that night the Semtex and the incendiary bombs
were at the flat Hyland was staying."

He allegedly left the following day, carrying a small rucksack containing the
incendiary bombs, batteries, a battery holder, tape and a pair of gloves.

"He left the Semtex bomb behind."

Grogan left his hotel the same morning - he was due to fly back that night, said
Mr Sweeney.

Mulholland flew over from Dublin that day. The three met up at Acton and talked
for some time. Hyland still had the rucksack containing the incendiaries,
alleged the prosecution.

That afternoon they were arrested. "The six incendiary bombs were found in
Hyland's rucksack and the Semtex found in the flat," said Mr Sweeney.

The trial continues.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONNECTION: a theoretical physics student at Queen's University is one
of three men charged with plotting a republican bombing campaign in London

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             April 30, 1999, Friday

STUDENTS 'JOINED CONSPIRACY TO BOMB UK'

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 336 words


Two students joined an Irish republican terrorist plot to bomb targets on the UK
mainland, months after last year's Good Friday agreement, an Old Bailey court
was told yesterday.

They pretended they were in London to check out university courses, but instead
were part of a conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property, alleged Mr Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting.

The plot was foiled by Britain's security services and police who arrested the
two and another man after a "large and joint operation", he said.

Students Liam Grogan (22), from Naas, Co Kildare, and Darren Mulholland (20),
from Dundalk, Co Louth, together with Anthony Hyland (26), no address given,
have all denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year.

When Hyland was arrested, he had a rucksack containing six incendiary bombs
intended for use on soft furnishing or carpet stores in London, alleged the
prosecution.

Hyland had allegedly stayed at a north London flat where a Semtex high explosive
bomb was found.

While in London he was observed to go to the reference section of a public
library looking at books including a Commons companion, it was claimed.

His fingerprints were found on the book in an area of MPs whose names started
with S.

Mr Sweeney said that one served a constituency in Scotland and one in Northern
Ireland.

On July 10 last year, police moved in and arrested three men.

Mr Sweeney alleged the three "were party, with others, to an Irish republican
terrorist conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom".

"They made various trips from Ireland to London in early July last year."

When arrested Hyland declined to give any details about himself to police.

Mulholland allegedly claimed he was in London because he was thinking of
transferring his studies and wanted to get a feel of the city and the cost of
living in a non-tourist area.

The case continues today.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              265 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 30, 1999

Nail bomb suspect caught on film

BYLINE: Stuart Millar

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words


Stuart Millar

Anti-terrorist officers hunting the Brixton nail bomber claimed a significant
breakthrough yesterday when they released video footage of a man they are
convinced planted the device.

The suspect, a white man in his late teens or early 20s, was photographed by a
series of surveillance cameras as he wandered around the Electric Avenue area
two Saturdays ago, shortly before the bomb exploded in a crowded street market,
injuring 39 people.

Detectives believe he may have been carrying out reconnaissance of the target
before planting the device at a bus stop outside an Iceland frozen food store.

Appealing to the public for help, Scotland Yard said it was its 'number one
priority" to identify the man, who does not appear in its database of known
extremists.

He was described as 1.69m to 1.74m tall (5ft 6in to 5ft 8in), and was wearing a
distinctive white baseball cap and a dark zip-up jacket.

The head of the anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry,
said: 'We have someone who is clearly recognisable; someone knows him. The
bomber has maimed and very nearly killed. He must be caught."

The three sections of time-delay footage released yesterday show the suspect in
the area at around 5pm 30 minutes before the blast.

Although he does not appear to be carrying the Head sports bag which contained
the bomb, Assistant Commissioner David Veness said there were 'significant
grounds" for concluding that he was the bomber. 'We are satisfied that this man
was probably the man in possession of the bag . . . We have a range of material
which leads us to the unequivocal view that the investigation focuses on this
man's face."

Four neo-Nazi groups have contacted police to claim responsibility for the bomb,
including Combat 18, which also claimed it planted a device which exploded in
Brick Lane last Saturday. Another far-right splinter group, calling itself the
White Wolves, has issued statements claiming both attacks.

The breakthrough came after officers examined hundreds of hours of surveillance
camera footage.Some images were enhanced by specialist agencies in the United
States.

A similar process is under way for surveillance footage around Brick Lane. The
Brixton suspect has not appeared on Brick Lane footage examined so far, and
police say he does not match any descriptions given by witnesses, but inquiries
are continuing.

The images were released amid mounting police and public concern that a third
attack may be planned for this weekend. Scores of extra officers will be on duty
in potential target areas, especially late on Saturday afternoon.

Anyone with any information about the man is asked to call the anti-terrorist
hotline on 0800 789321. Find the background to race issues in Britain on the
Guardian network at www.newsunlimited.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              266 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        April 30, 1999, Friday Edition 1

Students joined irish terrorist plot to bomb UK targets, court told

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 272 words


   Two students joined an Irish republican terrorist plot to bomb targets on the
UK mainland months after last year's Good Friday agreement, an Old Bailey court
heard yesterday.

They pretended they were in London to check out university courses - but instead
were part of a conspiracy to cause explosions likely to endanger life or cause
serious damage to property, alleged Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting.

The plot was foiled by Britain's security services and police who arrested the
two and another man after a "large and joint operation".

The trio had adopted anti-surveillance tactics to evade exposure - but failed,
the court heard.

Students Liam Grogan, 22, from Naas, Co Kildare, and Darren Mulholland, 20, from
Dundalk, Co Louth, together with Anthony Hyland, 26, no address given, have all
denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions between June
1 and July 11 last year.

When Hyland was arrested, he had a rucksack containing six incendiary bombs
intended for use on soft furnishing or carpet stores in London, it was alleged.

The jury were told they could infer he had brought them over earlier from
Ireland in Tupperware boxes wrapped in clear plastic film. They were also
covered in talcum powder to overcome sniffer dogs, said Mr Sweeney.

Hyland had allegedly stayed at a north London flat where a Semtex high explosive
bomb was found.

On July 10 last year, police arrested three men.

Mr Sweeney alleged the three "were party, with others, to an Irish republican
terrorist conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom".

The case was adjourned until today.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              267 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                 April 30, 1999

The democracy they threaten guarantees their right to exist. Should we ban them?


 United against the Front

BYLINE: Calls To Outlaw Fascist Groups Have Echoed Around The Nation From The
Moment Combat 18 Was Linked With The Two London Nail Bombs. But Is A Ban The
Best Way To Beat The Racists, Asks Andrea Smith

SECTION: Pg.12

LENGTH: 761 words


EVEN groups like Anti-Fascist Action which are prepared to fight fascism with
their fists have some reservations about banning Combat 18.

"We have never called for them to be banned," said a spokesman, "But our
members' personal opinion is that they should be outlawed.

"The problem is that the legislation necessary to do that could have a knock-on
effect on groups like ourselves, depending on the political party in government.

"And there are the practical difficulties too. You only have to look at Germany
where they ban a fascist group almost every week and they just re-name
themselves and carry on as usual."

He said that it was the AFA's belief that Combat 18, a splinter group of the
British National Party, had been too heavily infiltrated by Government agents to
have been able to carry out a successful terrorist attack.

And that leads to another problem with outlawing groups that was raised by Dr
Mike Rowe of Leicester University's anti-crime think-tank, the Scarman Centre.

"If these groups go any further underground, how do you find out what they are
doing? How do you infiltrate a group with just three to six members?"

The White Wolves, a white supremacist group that first emerged fours years ago,
is thought to be of that sort of size.

A week before the Brixton bomb it issued a statement, giving non-whites until
the end of the year to get out of Britain or face 'extermination'.

Dr Rowe said: "The Internet makes it impossible to stop them publicising their
case, so rather than banning these groups, we need to argue against what they
stand for.

"For example, they want a homogeneous white society, but this has never existed.
When the Roman army came to Britain, it included several divisions of African
soldiers. Remains in York and Norwich show that there were reasonable numbers of
black people living here before the Anglo-Saxons arrived."

"Banning the IRA did not stop its bombing campaign," said Virginia Gibbons of
the Campaign for Racial Equality.

"We have never called for organisations to be banned that are genuinely taking
part in the electoral process. We have never asked for the National Front and
British National Party to be stopped from standing in elections.

"Laws already exist to prosecute the people who carried out the bomb attacks and
hopefully send them to prison for a long time."

Dr Shofiqul Chowdhury, project co-ordinator of Highfields Bangladeshi Youth and
Cultural Shomati in Leicester, said there was a strong argument in favour of
banning groups, but on balance he thought the disadvantages would out-weigh the
advantages.

"These groups are not a visible, conspicuous entity. They don't have offices to
close, bank accounts to freeze.

"It could drive them further underground or they may try to infiltrate political
parties or trade unions.

"The answer rests with the decent people in this country to make it clear to
them that their ideas do not have any mass appeal and cannot be tolerated.

"Everything should be done to expose what they are doing. Yes, in the short term
they will gain publicity and some sympathy maybe , but in the long-term it will
be worth it."

FAR-right groups like the National Front had their heyday in Leicestershire more
than two decades ago.

In 1975 the party managed to gain more votes than the Liberals and Conservatives
in one by-election for local council seats, although they were soundly beaten in
turn by Labour.

The following year the party fielded candidates in all 48 Leicester city council
seats, polling 43,700 votes but failing to win any places.

This support declined in the Eighties.

The Mercury asked Leicestershire police if the force knew of any far-Right
groups within the county.

But the police simply responded with a statement saying that there were people
with a wide spectrum of political views in the county as would be expected in a
democratic society.

In February the National Front sent a letter to the Coalville and Ashby Times,
claiming that local support had enabled it to establish a branch in Hinckley and
it was hoping to expand.

But the letter provoked a barrage of protest from readers appalled at what the
party stands for.

This is echoed within Leicester according to a spokesman for Anti-Fascist
Action.

He said: "In the Seventies, Leicester was one of the main strongholds for the
National Front outside London.

"Although the NF was postering the New Parks area recently, the citizens of
Leicester are now strongly opposed to them and tend to live alongside one
another quite happily.

"We are not aware of any active groups in the city."

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              268 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 30, 1999, Friday

FOR SALE: RACE HATE;
 BRITAIN'S SICKEST MAIL ORDER SHOP

BYLINE: Bill Daniels And Oonagh Blackman Exclusive

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 563 words


RACE-hate videos and leaflets are being sent out from a small surburban house in
the Midlands.

From his living room, 31-year-old Mark Payne distributes white supremacist
literature from a racist publishing firm in America to fascist sympathisers
throughout Britain.

Payne, who is a member of the British National Party, protested: "I am doing
nothing illegal. I am not inciting anyone to violence or racial hatred."

But one of the leaflets he handed over when confronted by The Mirror showed a
scantily-clad white woman with the headline: "Earth's most beautiful endangered
species,"

The leaflet urged: "Look long and hard, White man. Images like hers may soon
cease to exist forever."

It went on: "The highest Law of Nature is the preservation of one's own kind.
There is no time remaining for White men to indulge in reality denial or
cowardice.

"If our women are not worth fighting for, then I ask you: What is?"

Payne, who lives in Coventry, admitted that the material could be bought by
members of the fascist Combat 18 group - thought to be responsible for the two
nail bomb attacks in London.

He advertises his race-hate material in the BNP newspaper.

It includes a pounds 15 video of interviews with jailed American terrorist David
Lane and members of a white supremacy group known as The Order.

They have been accused of attempting to overthrow the American Government.

The video is produced by Lane's wife Katja, who runs a publishing group known as
"14 Word Press" based in Idaho. The 14 words that gave the company its name are:
"We must secure the existence of our people and a future for White children."

Payne, who runs Fourteen Words (UK) from his home in in the Holbrooks area of
Coventry, said: "I am just exercising my right to free speech. I wrote to Katja
about two years ago and we realised we had similar views. She asked if I would
be her distributor in Britain and I agreed."

He denied he was trying to recruit new believers to his extremist views.

"I only sell to people who already share my opinions," he said.

Despite the fervent White Man propaganda he tries to market, Payne insists he is
strongly anti-violence.

He said: "I have no sympathy with the activities of Combat 18.

"As far as I am concerned, the people responsible for the death of Stephen
Lawrence should be strung up.

"All I am doing is putting forward Nationalist views in which I believe.

"I don't consider them racist or offensive. I don't hate coloured people - I
just want Britain to be white. I believe the races should develop separately.

"The material I sell is not going to incite people to crime. It is easy to buy
books and films which are far more racial than anything I have.

"We all have the right to express our point of view."

Faced with The Mirror exposing his activities, Payne changed his tune and said
he planned to give up.

He said: "It has become too time consuming.

"I work long hours in my job and I don't want to sacrifice all my spare time to
this."

THE racist White Wolves gang have claimed responsibility for last Saturday's
nail bomb in Brick Lane, in London's East End, which injured six people.

The group - an offshoot of Combat 18 - sent a 17-word message to the Asian
newspaper Eastern Eye. The letter included a code, which police said proved it
was not a hoax.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAPTION: tshirt for sale with evil 14-word slogan; PROPAGANDA: One of
the leaflets that Payne sends out; SINISTER: A letter featuring jailed US
terrorist; David Lane

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              269 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 30, 1999

Bomb plot foiled court hears

SECTION: Pg.25

LENGTH: 186 words


BRITAIN'S security services and the police foiled a plot by Irish republican
terrorists to bomb targets on the UK mainland after last year's Good Friday
agreement, the Old Bailey heard yesterday.

The terrorists intended to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to cause explosions likely to endanger life or cause serious damage to
property, alleged Nigel Sweeney, prosecuting.

But unknown to them they were subjects of a "large joint operation by officers
from the security services and the police", said Mr Sweeney.

On July 10 last year, police moved in and arrested three men, he told the jury.

Anthony Hyland, 26, no address given; Liam Grogan, 22, from Naas, Co Kildare;
and Darren Mulholland, 20, from Dundalk, Co Louth; have all denied that with
others unknown they conspired to cause explosions between June 1 and July 11
last year.

Mr Sweeney alleged the three "were party, with others, to an Irish republican
terrorist conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom."

"They made various trips from Ireland to London in early July last year."

The case continues.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              270 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 30, 1999

Is this the Brixton nail bomber?;
 POLICE ON ALERT FOR BANK HOLIDAY TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Peachey

SECTION: News, Pg.9

LENGTH: 530 words


DETECTIVES hunting the Brixton nail bomber are hoping for a breakthrough after
issuing a video of the man they believe to be the prime suspect.

The move came as security precautions against further bomb attacks were stepped
up around the country in readiness for the May Bank holiday.

Vulnerable areas - including Bristol - will have extra officers on patrol.

Scotland Yard revealed last night it has received a ''steady number'' of calls
since releasing footage of a white man, in his twenties, wandering around the
crowded streets of Brixton up to 90 minutes before the bomb exploded injuring 39
people.

Police believe he may have made an earlier trip to the area in south London and
then collected the bomb, planted it and fled before the explosion at about
5.30pm on Saturday, April 17.

At a Scotland Yard briefing, Assistant Commissioner David Veness said: ''This
one individual may be a loner acting for his own perverted reasons."

Mr Veness said the man, between 5ft 6in and 5ft 8in, was clearly recognisable
from the Brixton footage.

Head of the Yard's anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan
Fry, said the man, wearing a white cap and dark zip-up jacket, was caught on
video between 4pm and 5pm.

Detectives believe he dumped the bomb at about 5pm outside an Iceland store in
Electric Avenue.

Several people picked up the bag holding the device before it exploded without
warning.

They included a 14-year-old boy who realised it was a bomb and tried to move it
to safety.

Dozens were injured by flying glass, nails and shrapnel, including a 23-month
-old boy who had a four-inch nail embedded in his head which was later removed
in a 90-minute operation.

Two days after the explosion, a man claiming to be from the neo-Nazi group
Combat 18 made a first claim of responsibility, followed by claims from three
other racist groups.

Police staged a reconstruction of the attack a week later but shortly afterwards
a second bomb went off at Brick Lane, east London, and six people were injured.

Detectives examined hundreds of hours of CCTV footage, some of which was sent to
America twice for experts to examine and improve the quality.

The same man has not been spotted by detectives examining pictures from the
Brick Lane bombing.

Officers on the case were working on theories that the attacker could be a
breakaway member of Combat 18.

High-profile police patrols will be on duty this weekend as ethnic communities
across Britain are on alert in case of a repeat of the violence of the previous
weekends.

In the West police will keep a close watch on suspected race hate terrorists
over the Bank Holiday.

Inspector Keith Jones of Avon and Somerset police said: "We will be targeting
groups known or suspected to be involved in race hate crimes."

The operation will concentrate on Bristol, Somerset and south Gloucestershire.

Police are working with black, Asian and other ethnic minority communities to
make sure people are aware of the dangers.

It is believed the far-Right terror group Combat 18, one of the groups which
claimed responsibility for the Brixton bombing, may have a cell in Bristol.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              271 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

HORROR: TWO DIE AS BOMB BLASTS SOHO GAY BAR;
 NEO-NAZIS STRIKE AT GAY COMMUNITY; NEW TWIST IN TERRORIST CAMPAIGN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 719 words


TWO people died and more than 70 were injured - at least 13 of them seriously -
when a bomb ripped through a packed Soho bar in the heart of London's gay
community last night.

The device went off at 6.37pm without warning in the busy Admiral Duncan pub in
Old Compton Street, blowing limbs off its victims and leaving dozens burnt and
suffering from blast wounds.

The atrocity was claimed by the neo-Nazi 'White Wolves' group, associated with
Comat 18, which has warned all non-White people to get out of Britain by the end
of the year.

Eyewitnesses saw bodies strewn around the street which just moments earlier had
been full of Bank Holiday revellers enjoying the sunny evening at bars and
restaurants.

The device was reported to be a third nail-bomb - similar to those which caused
widespread injury in the past two weekends in linked attacks aimed at the
capital's ethnic minority areas of Brixton and Brick Lane.

Scotland Yard believes an extreme right-wing terror group may be responsible as
it emerged that gays in London had been warned to be on their guard against a
similar attack on their community.

Home Secretary Jack Straw led the condemnation:

"This is a terrible outrage committed by people with no humanity. I know that
the police are devoting huge efforts to find the perpetrators," he said.

"Our hearts go out to those injured, and the families and friends of those
killed. This awful crime reinforces the need for all of us to be vigilant."

Mr Straw said the police were devoting all resources available to them in the
hunt to catch the bombers.

He described the perpetrators of the three attacks as having "no humanity
whatever".

"We are dealing with people who have warped minds, right-wing extremists who are
obviously racist and homophobic. That we know," he said.

"I know too that the British people will not be intimidated by this outrage, nor
will the harmony between different minorities be disturbed by it."

According to nursing staff at UCH, most of the victims were young men.

As Mr Straw cancelled a planned weekend away and returned to his desk in
Whitehall, Tory leader William Hague described the bombing as an "appalling and
barbaric act".

He said: "Our thoughts are with the victims and their families and friends and
those involved in attending to them at this time."

Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown also condemned the attack as "an act of
mindless brutality" committed by "cowards of the highest order".

Mr Ashdown told Sky News: "You risk nothing by doing this.

"You go in, you plant in secret a bomb that destroys innocent people's lives
because you don't happen to like the views of a minority, whether that is black
or because of their sexuality.

"It's an act of mindless brutality but also terrible personal cowardice."

The Royal London Hospital, Whitechapel, said its helicopter service had taken
doctors and medical equipment to the scene, putting down in Trafalgar Square.

Meanwhile, one block away from the blast scene, in Soho Square, ambulance crews
and paramedics set up an emergency field hospital.

About 30 doctors, nurses and ambulance men were treating the injured in the
middle of the leafy square before placing them in ambulances and sending them to
hospitals.

The emergency number for relatives of the casualties is 0171 834 7777.

Old Compton Street is known as the centre of London's gay community but it is
also popular with theatre-goers and night clubbers as well as being close to
Chinatown.

The roads around the scene were closed off as far as Tottenham Court Road in the
north, Shaftesbury Avenue to the east, Charing Cross Road to the south and
Shaftesbury Avenue to the west.

Thousands of people were evacuated from the area, which was littered with glass
and debris from the explosion.

Sean Given, manager of nearby gay bar Village Soho in Wardour Street, said: "It
was in the Admiral Duncan gay bar.

"I saw the whole front blown out and bodies lying around in the street.

"We have just been ordered out by the police, out of my own bar.

"It looks like an attack on the gay community."

Johann Steinecker, of patisserie Maison Bertaux in nearby Greek Street, said:
"It was just starting to get busy with a lot of people in the street.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SHOCK: an ambulance paramedic comforts a shocked victim of last night's
Soho blast

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              272 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                  May 1, 1999

It happened THIS WEEK

SECTION: seven, Pg.4

LENGTH: 324 words


SATURDAY: A group of Kosovan refugees spoke of the terror in their war-torn
homeland after being smuggled to Bristol in the back of a lorry. Astrit Hoxha,
aged 31, his pregnant wife Marjeta, 25, and their three- year-old son Nikola
were forced out of their home in Peje at gunpoint by Serbian soldiers. Said
Astrit: "Coming to Britain was our only hope."

SUNDAY:Inner-city areas such as St Paul's and Easton could become the next
target for race hate bombers, police warned. Black and Asian communities went on
alert after a second nail bomb attack in London brings fears of a neo-Nazi
terror campaign nationwide.

MONDAY: Jill Dando, one of Britain's best-loved stars, was murdered outside her
West London home through a single gunshot to the head.

TUESDAY: The Co-op's Homeworld store in Filton is to close with the loss of 136
jobs. The store, one of the largest in the Homeworld chain, is being sold along
with nine other branches to the retail group Kingfisher for 80.4 million.

WEDNESDAY:Schools in Bristol are leading the way by introducing a breakfast
service for pupils. A number of Bristol primary and secondary schools offer
children a nourishing start to the day with cereals, toast and fruit juice.
Among those to offer breakfast is Teyfant Primary School in Hartcliffe, which
encourages parents to join their children for a morning snack.

THURSDAY: A collector paid a world record price for a piece of Bristol's
history. Alan Ward who runs a fire extinguisher firm in Old Market, paid 7,000
at auction for a 275-year-old metal badge which once helped protect a house in
the city from fire.

FRIDAY: Rolls Royce suspended 14 staff at its Patchway plant after offensive
jokes and cartoons were sent on the company's e-mail system. The company has
strict rules on the use of the e-mail system and serious breaches are a sackable
offence. Inquiries and disciplinary hearings are currently taking place.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              273 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

SOHO BOMBING: THOUSANDS OF POLICE MOUNT BOMB WATCH

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto, Ian Burrell And Kathy Marks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 507 words


POLICE FORCES across Britain will today mount their biggest anti- racist
operation, with hundreds of extra officers providing a visible street presence.

They fear that the individual or group responsible for last night's fatal bomb
in Soho may strike again.

On the previous two Saturdays, nail bombs have exploded in Brixton and Brick
Lane in London, injuring 45 people. In recent weeks, up to 25 members of the
Jewish community, as well as blacks and Asians including peers, have received
identical stencilled death threats from the so-called White Wolves.

As well as extra patrols involving beat officers, police vehicles and horses,
undercover detectives, volunteers and traffic wardens, several areas with large
ethnic minority communities, such as Southall in west London, have set up "civil
guards". Members of neo-Nazi groups are being monitored.

Talks have taken place all week between the police and ethnic minority
communities amid growing concern that the campaign may spread beyond London.
Police and the Home Office had urged gay businesses and organisations to be
alert for possible bombs, and yesterday's gay Pink Paper carried a warning.

Extra patrols were being set up in cities including Bristol, Liverpool,
Bradford, Manchester, Cardiff, Glasgow and Birmingham as well as across London.
David Veness, Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said that in
London alone there would be hundreds of extra officers on duty.

"Our intention will be to deploy significant, highly visible resources to detect
and deter these crimes." Forces have stressed the importance of ensuring that
closed-circuit television cameras are working.

In Southall, dozens of volunteers will patrol the streets and markets in an
attempt to prevent the nail bombers striking their community. The area is home
to Britain's biggest Asian population and it was named as a target in a letter
from Combat 18, one of the neo-Fascist groups that have claimed responsibility
for the bombs. Southall's fears have been increased as all three bombs in the
new campaign exploded in crowded places.

Volunteers wearing armbands visited shops in Southall yesterday, handing out
leaflets and advice. "Check the alleyways at the back, check your rubbish bags
and make sure your customers don't leave anything behind," they told two
nervous-looking women behind the counter of a sari shop.

In Manchester, still recovering from the IRA bombing of the city centre three
years ago, fears are also running high. Greater Manchester Police said it would
deploy extra traffic patrols and police horse units.

In the West Midlands, 4,000 posters in nine languages were put up yesterday,
calling for extra vigilance. There will be a more visible police presence
outside Sikh Gudwaras, Hindu temples and mosques.

In Bradford, Istiaq Ahmed, director of the city's Race Equality Council, said:
"There is a great deal of concern in the community after the racial attacks in
London. We feel Bradford could be the next target."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Passers-by read a security notice posted by police in Brixton near the
scene of the blast two weeks ago Mark Chilvers

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              274 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

TWO DEAD, 81 INJURED AS NAIL BOMB BLASTS GAY PUB IN SOHO

BYLINE: Reports By Andrew Buncombe Kathy Marks Gary Finn Kate Watson-Smyth Linu
S Gregoriadis Philip Thornton Michael Hann

SECTION: TITLE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 726 words


TWO PEOPLE were killed and81 injured, 13 of them seriously, when a bomb exploded
last night in a crowded gay bar in Soho, central London. Five people were on the
critical list.

The blast, which happened at 6.37pm without warning, devastated the Admiral
Duncan pub in Old Compton Street, the capital's gay centre. Ten minutes before
the blast police had cordoned off a phone box in nearby Shaftesbury Avenue,
although it was not knownwhether this was linked to the attack.

The explosion shocked the gay community and ethnic minorities, coming less than
a week after last Saturday's blast in Brick Lane in London's East End and the
previous week's nail-bomb attack on Brixton market, which injured 39.

Extreme right-wing groups were seen as prime suspects for last night's attack.
Sir Paul Condon, Metropolitan Police Commissioner, appealed for help in catching
the bombers. He said a far-right group calling itself the White Wolves had
phoned the BBC to claim responsibility for the attack, as it had done for the
previous London bombings.

Earlier this week police issued a photograph, taken from a closed-circuit
television camera, of a man suspected of planting the Brixton bomb.

Speaking at a press conference at Scotland Yard last night, Sir Paul insisted
that everything was being done to trace the "evil cowards" behind the bombs.

Confirming that police were linking last night's explosion to the incidents in
Brixton and Brick Lane, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner said they were
incidents that affected the whole community.

"These are cowardly hate attacks," he said. "They may be aimed at vulnerable
individuals and communities, but these are hate attacks that affect all of us."
The Commissioner said that in recent days, anticipating a possible explosion in
the strongly gay area of Soho, crime prevention officers had visited a number of
pubs and bars to offer advice on security. The Admiral Duncan, where the bomb
exploded having been placed next to the bar on the ground floor, was among those
visited by officers.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the force's anti-terrorist
branch, said that when officers arrived at the scene they were confronted by a
scene of horror. "It was an horrendous scene. It was a complete wreck."

The Old Compton Street area was packed with people when the device exploded at
the start of a bank holiday weekend. Amid chaotic scenes the injured were
treated by the roadside as others fled the area. Eyewitnesses spoke of an
enormous explosion and dozens of people being hit by flying glass.

London Ambulance Service confirmed that two people had died in the blast.
Another 13 were seriously injured, of whom two had lost limbs. Many of the
others suffered burns. There were also many walking wounded.

The injured were taken to four London hospitals: University College, St Thomas',
The Royal London and Guy's.

The bombing was greeted with anger by the gay community, which had been bracing
itself for such an attack. Angela Mason, director of the gay pressure group
Stonewall, called on the Home Secretary, Jack Straw, to bring in emergency
powers to curb far-right extremists.

Mr Straw said: "This is a terrible outrage committed by people with no humanity.
I know that the police are devoting huge efforts to find the perpetrators." He
added: "We are dealing with people who have warped minds, right-wing extremists
who are obviously racist and homophobic."

Peter Tatchell, spokesman for the gay rights group OutRage!, said: "A lot of gay
people saw the Old Compton Street area as a safe haven.They felt able to relax
and hold hands without fear of attack. This outrage has destroyed that cosy
assumption."

The nature and timing of the attack now suggests that any minority community in
Britain - but particularly in London - might be next. Claims from far- right
groups have listed the Jewish, Chinese and Irish communities as potential
targets in addition to Asian and black people.

Mike Whine, of the British Board of Jewish Deputies, said synagogues were
strengthening security and Jews would be mounting patrols in the areas where
they live. "We are concerned but we have lived through security threats in
recent years. There are certain precautions which we have put into place this
week," he said.

Full reports, pages 2-4

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Five minutes after the explosion, before the paramedics arrive, passers
-by help the injured while a fire crew enter the pub's blasted- out front Sacha
Teulon

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              275 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

THOUSANDS OF EXTRA POLICE MOUNT RACIST BOMB WATCH

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto, Ian Burrell And Kathy Marks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 618 words


POLICE FORCES across Britain will today mount their biggest ever anti-racist
operation with hundreds of extra officers providing a visible street presence.

They are acting in response to fears that the individual or group responsible
for the nail bombs in Brixton and Brick Lane in London, injuring 45 people, may
strike for a third successive Saturday afternoon.

As well as extra patrols involving beat officers, police vehicles and horses,
undercover detectives, volunteers and traffic wardens, several areas with large
ethnic communities, such as Southall in west London, have set up their own
"civil guards".

Close consultations have taken place all week between the police and ethnic
communities amid growing concerns that the campaign may eventually be taken out
of London. Extra patrols are being set up in cities including Bristol,
Liverpool, Bradford, Manchester, Cardiff, Glasgow and Birmingham.

David Veness, Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, said that in
London alone there would be hundreds of extra officers on duty."Our intention
will be to deploy significant, highly visible resources to detect and deter
these crimes," he said.

In Southall, dozens of volunteers will patrol the streets and markets in an
attempt to prevent the nail bombers bringing their hate campaign to the
community. The threat is real enough; the area is home to Britain's biggest
Asian population - mainly Punjabi Sikhs, but also Hindus and Pakistani Muslims -
and it was named as a target in a letter from Combat 18, one of the neo-Fascist
groups that claimed responsibility for the bombs.

Many remember 4 July 1981, when two coachloads of skinheads came to Southall to
hear a Fascist band perform in the Hanborough Tavern. To get in the mood they
rampaged through the suburb, smashing windows and beating up "Pakis".

When police failed to materialise, hundreds of Asian youths gathered in the main
street, the Broadway. They fought the gang with fists and bricks, and burnt down
the pub. The skinheads fled, never to return.

The incident highlights Southall's tradition of stubborn resistance to racist
violence. Today, residents are prepared to fight back once again.

Fears focus on today, as the bombs of the past fortnight both exploded on busy
Saturday afternoons. But in recent days many residents have stayed at home
rather than court an unseen danger. Yesterday, cars moved freely along the
Broadway, usually clogged with traffic. The pavements, often so crowded that
they cannot be negotiated with a child's pushchair, were quiet. In the shops
selling fabrics and spices, traders waited disconsolately for custom. "Business
has gone dead," said Liaquat Ali in his empty jewellery shop. "Everyone is
scared."

In Manchester, which is still recovering from the effects of the IRA bomb which
devastated the city centre three years ago, fears are also running high. In the
West Midlands, 4,000 posters - written in nine languages - were put up yesterday
calling for extra vigilance. In Bradford, Istiaq Ahmed, director of the city's
race Equality Council, said: "There is a great deal of concern... We feel that
Bradford could be the next target."

t A man was yesterday released on bail after being questioned by detectives
hunting the nailbomber. Police had arrested the man, of east London, on Thursday
just hours after they released photographs of a man who is the prime suspect for
the explosion in Brixton. The suspect, a white man in his twenties wearing a
white baseball cap, was filmed by security cameras shortly before the explosion
as he walked around the area at the south London market to where the nail bomb
was left on Saturday 17 April.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A volunteer hands a Southall shopkeeper a leaflet in an attempt to
prevent a repeat of the Brixton and Brick Lane bombs Andrew Buurman

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              276 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

MONITOR: LONDON BOMBINGS;
 REACTION TO THE BOMBINGS OF MULTI-ETHNIC MARKETS IN BRIXTON AND BRICK LANE

BYLINE: Research By Sally Chatterton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 277 words


Eastern Eye

THE BOMBINGS of Brixton and Brick Lane have sent shockwaves through the country.
Immediate reaction was one of horror and frustration. But at Eastern Eye we do
not regard ourselves as whingers. We believe that Britain is a shining example
of how multi-culturalism can be a success - probably more than any other
country. Things have improved so much for us in the last 10 years. Let's not let
a few evil racist terrorists spoil it.

The Economist

ON TWO successive weekends powerful but crude nail bombs have been set off in
street markets in London. Police have little doubt that they were racist
attacks. Electoral frustration is probably a factor in the current nail-bomb
attacks. The far right has been so marginalised in British politics that its
most extreme elements will have nothing left but violence. Senior officers warn
that, if the bombing has been perpetrated by a very small group, it could take a
long time before the culprits are caught. The combination of the war in Serbia,
the Dando murder and the nail bombs have created a curiously febrile atmosphere
in Britain.

New Statesman

RACIST VIOLENCE is frightening. From the streets of Hackney to the bomb
explosions in Brixton and Brick Lane, there is reason to know the dangers
inherent in racism. But British society has little appreciation of the strengths
of character rampant racism is building in its minority communities. To exist in
the face of danger and still apply yourself to building a community is a
formidable collective act of courage and will. You haven't seen what the Asian
and black minorities are truly capable of yet. (Ziauddin Sardar)

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              277 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

BLAST JUST THE LATEST IN EVIL LINE;
 NAIL BOMB TERROR IN SOHO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 203 words


LAST night's Soho blast was the latest in a series of terrorist atrocities to
rock Britain.

In February 1972 seven were killed and 15 injured when a bomb tore apart the
Parachute Brigade HQ in Aldershot, marking the start of the IRA's mainland
campaign.

Two years later 12 soldiers died when a bomb blew up a coach on the M62 near
Leeds.

Twenty people were killed and 183 injured in November 1974 as explosions ripped
through two Birmingham pubs.

The Hyde Park blasts of July 1982 killed 11 soldiers and left 50 people hurt.
Then the IRA's Harrods bomb, late in 1983, killed six and injured 90.

In October 1984 five died when the IRA hit the Grand Hotel, Brighton, during the
Tory Party conference.

Eleven Army bandsmen were murdered in 1989 by an explosion at the Royal Marines
School of Music in Deal, Kent.

In 1993, Jonathan Ball, three, and Timothy Parry, 12, were killed by IRA bombs
in Warrington.

An IRA truck bomb devastated Bishopsgate, London, in 1993, killing one and
injuring 44. Then three years on the IRA ended their first ceasefire - killing
two at South Quay in London's Docklands.

In June 1996, Manchester was decimated by an IRA lorry bomb which injured 200.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              278 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

BRIXTON BOMBING SUSPECT ARREST

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 254 words


POLICE hunting race-hate nail bombers arrested a suspect yesterday.

The man was detained when anti-terrorist officers raided a flat in east London.

Police were acting on a tip-off from a member of the public.

The arrest came just hours after Scotland Yard issued a series of CCTV
surveillance pictures taken two Saturdays ago in Brixton.

Scotland Yard said later that the man was questioned and released on bail until
late May.

Thirty-nine people were injured by the nail bomb in Brixton which has one of the
largest Afro-Caribbean communities in Britain.

Six people were hurt when an identical nail device was detonated in Brick Lane,
east London, last Saturday.

Police believe an extreme right-wing racist group is responsible.

Neo-Nazi factions Combat 18 and The White Wolves have both claimed
responsibility.

The CCTV images from Brixton showed a man in his 20s, wearing a zip up jacket
and white baseball cap.

Shortly afterwards the bomb exploded.

Police received other information and more arrests are expected.

They refused to say if the arrested man was a member of a right-wing group.

Detectives added that they were still looking for the man who appeared on the
surveillance footage.

Scotland Yard believes the bombers will kill if they are not caught.

FOOTBALL hooligan Andrew Frain, 35, who is linked to Combat 18, was yesterday
jailed for 14 months after attacking a policeman at an Oxford United v Reading
football match.

Voice of The Mirror - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HUNT: Suspect on film

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              279 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             May 1, 1999, Saturday

Fearful communities put patrols on their streets

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 947 words


Reaction

Volunteers to keep watch on synagogues and shopping areas in an effort to defeat
the terror campaign by right-wing fanatics, reports Dominic Kennedy

REACTION

MINORITY groups will take to the streets today to defend their communities
against nail-bomb attacks.

Preparations had already begun among groups that feared they would be the next
victims of a terror campaign which has targeted ethnic minority areas. Jewish,
Irish and Roman Catholic people, all demonised in the propaganda of the extreme
Right, will also be implementing extra security precautions.

In Southall, West London, 100 volunteers will patrol the town centre today,
watching for individuals or packages that might pose a threat to the Asian
shopping areas.

Fifty young Asian men will distribute bomb warning leaflets in seven languages,
including Punjabi and Somali, in the Green Street shopping area of West Ham,
East London.

Mano Singh, 29, a volunteer, said: "I was born around here. When your own area
is threatened, you have to do something. We will be encouraging everyone to be
vigilant."

Volunteers will stand guard at synagogues throughout the country. Michael Whine,
from the Board of Deputies of British Jews, said last night: "While the extreme
Right don't like the blacks and Asians, (the extreme Right say) it is the Jews
that brought them here. They say it is part of a Jewish conspiracy to flood the
white homeland." After the well-known immigrant areas of Brixton and Brick Lane
were chosen as the bombers' first targets, people in every ethnic minority
district in Britain began wondering who would be next. Now members of the
thriving homosexual communities in Brighton and Manchester, are fearing that
they may be next. Stonewall, the gay equality lobby group, said last night that
it feared the bombing of the Admiral Duncan pub signalled the start of a
broad-based hate campaign against minorities. Police were unsure whether the
bombs were the work of Combat 18, the notorious neo-Nazi group which worships
Adolf Hitler and has claimed that it planted the Brixton and Brick Lane devices,
or a lone extremist inspired by their beliefs.

Mark Watson, Stonewall's spokesman, said: "Combat 18 have targeted us as well as
blacks and Asians. There are some very deep hatreds. All the debate we have been
having is about racism, but the racists are the same people as the homophobes.

"The same people who stabbed Stephen Lawrence are the people who beat up gay
men. It is part of a culture. We are concerned that we will see a rise in hate
crimes in the UK." He said that homosexual people would not be deterred from
gathering openly. "The lesbian and gay community has always been very resilient.
Our history is one of being attacked. Stonewall was born out of attacks by the
police in New York 30 years ago this week."

Since the Brixton and Brick Lane bombings, ethnic minorities have been aware of
potential danger. The first bomb, in Brixton market, at the heart of one of
Britain's most confident black communities, injured 37, including a two-year-old
child who had a four-inch nail removed from its skull. A week later another nail
bomb exploded, injuring six people, in Brick Lane, the home of the largest
Bengali community outside Bangladesh, and for many years a battleground for
different races.

Scotland Yard has adopted a policy of "high-visibility" policing in ethnic
minority areas. Officers are being instructed to wear yellow reflective jackets
so that no one can miss their presence. In London, the police have been
concentrating on mainly black communities, such as the Broadwater Farm estate in
Tottenham, Stoke Newington and Hackney, and Asian centres including Tower
Hamlets. In Lancashire, police are stepping up patrols in Asian-dominated areas
of Blackburn, Preston and Burnley.

Questions will be raised about whether the police have been too complacent about
the threat to gay communities. The Brick Lane bomb caused shock throughout
immigrant communities.

The streets of Southall have been largely deserted, according to Yasmin
Alibhai-Brown, research fellow at the Institute of Public Policy Research, who
lives in the area. "It's very tense and quite alarmingly empty in the evenings,"
she said. "The younger people have become very defiant, which is good, but
families and older people like my mother are terrified."

Ms Alibhai-Brown, who has a young child, said she was also reluctant to take the
risk of entering the area. "I am cross with myself for being a coward."

Fears are growing that vigilante groups will emerge if the police do not catch
the bomber soon. The Southall monitoring project, which is organising today's
street patrols, was sent a letter, signed "Combat 18", claiming responsibility
for the Brixton bomb and giving warning that the next targets would be people of
Pakistani extraction in Bradford, Slough, Birmingham and Tower Hamlets, the
Indian community in Southall, black people in Tottenham, and the Irish Catholics
of Dublin.

Green Street in West Ham has been preparing for the worst. Newham Council is
sending extra refuse collectors and traffic wardens so that suspect bags and
cars can be more easily spotted.

The Community Security Trust, which trains Jews to defend synagogues, has sent
security advice to shopkeepers in Golders Green and Stamford Hill in London, and
to the large Jewish communities of Manchester and Leeds.

Critics have accused the Security Services of placing too low a priority on
monitoring the extreme Right. MI5 is reputed to regard Britain's neo-Nazis as
ill-disciplined street fighters who pose little threat to national security.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              280 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 1, 1999

West police bid to beat race-hate terrorists

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: News, Pg.6/ 7

LENGTH: 356 words



POLICE are to crack down on suspected race-hate terrorists in the West as the
threat of more bomb attacks looms over the Bank Holiday weekend.

Detectives have warned that the neo-Nazis who planted bombs at Brixton and Brick
Lane and are believed to have targeted Soho last night could strike outside
London.

Dozens of officers are to take to the streets in the West to deter potential
bombers and to reassure the worried community.

Inspector Keith Jones, Avon and Somerset police spokesman, said: "We will be
targeting groups known or suspected to be involved in race hate crimes.

"They are nothing more than cowards and injure innocent people."

The operation is to be mounted in Bristol, Somerset and south Gloucestershire.

Police are working with the Black, Asian and other ethnic minority communities
to make sure people are aware of the dangers.

It is believed the far-Right terror group Combat 18, one of the groups which
claimed responsibility for the Brixton bombing, may have a cell in Bristol.

Officers will be touring shops, restaurants and other meeting places and
speaking to community leaders.

Insp Jones said: "If we all work together and make people aware of the possible
threats then we should raise awareness."

Batook Pandya, of Support Against Racial Incidents in Bristol, said: "We are
taking calls from people and groups who are saying they are worried.

"We are saying we should not be scared but we should be worried."

Mr Pandya said last week, after the Brixton bombing, a letter filled with racist
abuse was sent to a white mother of two mixed-race children in Bristol.

He said the letter, which had a Taunton postmark, would be handed to the police.

Latham Miller from Easton has been in Britain since 1972.

Children

He said: "As far as I can see it's been in the system for a long time, it's only
just coming out.

"I worry mainly about my children. England is supposed to be a free democratic
society. We get involved in Yugoslavia and can't solve our own racial problems."

Earlier this week police warned people not to move suspect devices, but to call
999.


LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              281 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

TERROR IN LONDON: DON'T LET THEM BLOW AWAY OUR LIBERTIES

BYLINE: Conor Gearty A

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 612 words


IN 1973, there were 86 terrorist explosions in Britain, causing one death and
nearly 400 other casualties. During the following year, 20 had died and more
than 150 had been injured in similar attacks, even before the terrible
Birmingham bombs in November claimed a further 21 lives.

The bomb attacks in London have been pure acts of terror in that they have been
systematic, indiscriminate and intended to communicate a political message.

Dreadful though they have been, however, it is important to keep a sense of
perspective.

It took high levels of violence over a two-year period to persuade the British
government to enact the Prevention of Terrorism Act in 1974, and opinion remains
divided on whether that Act ultimately did more harm than good.

Thankfully, we are not yet anywhere near these previous levels of violence, and
the emotional pitch of the public discourse in the aftermath of Friday's bomb
should not be allowed to obscure this fact.

What these latest bombings confront us with is a particularly acute criminal
problem, but it is one which the police are well equipped to address.

We have already seen the extent to which video evidence may be important in
cracking these crimes, and forensic evidence, support from the public and
routine police work will also have their parts to play.

It is unlikely that the persons responsible have developed the infrastructural
support which they need to defy detection. These bombs will almost certainly
prove terminally counter-productive for far-Right politics in Britain.

It would, however, be disastrous if the bombings were turned into a platform for
new counter-terrorism laws. The Home Secretary is right to draw attention to the
dangers of banning certain far-Right groups.

Quite apart from the impracticability of such a move and its implications for
our civil liberties of expression and association, proscription would dignify
what is now a marginal and isolated criminal gang with the aura of terrorist
invincibility.

It would also almost certainly increase their following by drawing into their
ranks a penumbra of soft support that would identify with their new-found
oppression.

Groups of this nature like nothing more than to be specially noticed by the
state, to be treated as equals in their self-proclaimed war. This was why the
Provisional IRA gained so spectacularly during Mrs Thatcher's time in office;
her preoccupation with them was their best recruiting officer. No doubt the Home
Secretary will not make the same mistake with the group responsible for these
attacks.

More likely is that the bombings will be used as an argument in favour of
expanding the remit of the current anti-terrorism laws to include not only Irish
and international but also domestic "terrorism". Proposals to this effect were
made by the Government late last year, but no mention was made then of far-Right
violence. The designated "enemy within" at the time included animal and
environmental rights activists and a definition of terrorism was suggested which
would, if enacted, bring many kinds of non-violent direct action within its
remit.

If this were to happen, the police would secure wide powers of stop and search,
arrest and detention which could sharply limit the scope in this country for
extra-Parliamentary political action. Ironically, these powers might then be
deployed against ethnic and gay rights activists engaged in public protest.
These bombs have caused enough casualties already, without adding many of our
traditional civil liberties to their list of victims.

Conor Gearty is Professor of Human Rights Law at Kings College, London.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              282 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

LEADING ARTICAL: BE ALERT, STAY CALM

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 614 words


THREE BOMBS make a bombing campaign. The attack on a gay pub in Soho on Friday,
in which two people died and more than 70 were injured, was an act of terrorism.
The two earlier London bombs, one in Brixton, which injured 39 people, and one
in Brick Lane, which injured six, must now be seen as part of a far-right plot
to intimidate, maim and kill. But to what end? There is nothing on the far-right
agenda, in so far as it has one, that will be realised as a result of these
outrageous attacks on defenceless, law-abiding minority groups. It is hard not
to conclude, as Professor David Cesarani does on page 3, that the bombers are
gripped by a kind of paranoid nihilism.

Sir Paul Condon has appealed for calm. He is absolutely right to do so. Yet
Londoners are fearful at the moment, and it is understandable that they should
be. They are also furious. The fury is more rational than the fear. London is a
safe city. The immediate danger - apart from the possibility that there will be
more bombs - is that fear and fury may lead to insensitivity and injustice.
There have been suggestions by some gay activists that the police were not
vigilant enough on their behalf. There is no evidence that this was the case.
Indeed, the police had issued warnings that the gay community too might be
targeted, and during the week had advised pubs in Soho on security. Gays have
reason to feel bitter about past police behaviour, especially in the matter of
entrapment, but very few of them will wish to join in the recrimination. For
anyone - gay or straight, black or white - to suggest that there has been
irresponsibility and dereliction of duty on the part of the police - so soon
after the hiding they received in the Macpherson report - is hysterical.

There are other dangers. Already there have been calls for banning far- right
groups. Britain would be a better place if such groups did not exist, but it
would not be a free country if they were banned. Freedom does not mean licence,
however. There are laws against incitement to racial hatred, and they can be
applied to curb members of such groups as Combat 18. Kinder, gentler methods of
resistance might also be used. There is a strong case for encouraging in
schoolchildren what the soft right calls "political correctness": that is,
concern for the feelings of people who, for whatever reason, seem "different".
Tolerant children become tolerant adults. But there can be no case for banning
political groups simply because they hold stupid or contentious, or even
intolerable, ideas. If people believe that immigration from the Third World is a
bad and debasing thing, they must be free to say so; if they believe that the
homosexual law reforms of the 1960s should be repealed, they must be free to say
so. Freedom of expression is a glorious British tradition. Even the British
Union of Fascists was not banned until 1940; and the Communist Party was never
banned at all, even when it supported Hitler after Britain had gone to war with
Germany in 1939.

There are racists and homophobes in Britain in 1999, and they are armed and
dangerous. But Britain is not in itself racist or homophobic. This will not be
any comfort to the victims of the murderous violence of the past two weeks, of
course. It is nevertheless true that the violence is statistically of very
little significance. What is significant is the psychological effect it will
have at a time of growing anxiety. Everything must be done to catch the bombers.
But Sir Paul Condon should remember that word "calm". The police investigation
must be painstaking in its thoroughness. But above all it must be calm. We don't
want rough justice.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              283 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

WE'LL BEAT HATE THAT HAS NO PLACE IN BRITAIN;
 EXCLUSIVE: TONY BLAIR ON THE NAIL BOMB DEVASTATION

BYLINE: Prime Minister Tony Blair Writes For The

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words


HEARD the news of Friday's appalling nail bombing in Soho - the third in London
in as many weeks - as I returned home from campaigning in Scotland and Wales.

My reaction was the same as the overwhelming majority of people in this country.
Shock, anger, disgust, but also a determination that the evil cowards behind
these acts of terror will be caught.

And a resolve that they will fail in their aim of stoking up divisions and
hatred.

For these bombs are not just intended to maim and murder. They are also blows at
the society that the great mass of decent British people want our country to be.

Where people of whatever colour, race, religion, sex or sexuality have a stake
in our future and the chance to fulfil their potential. A tolerant, modern
nation.

The bombers believe they are striking - by targeting the Afro-Caribbean
community in Brixton, the Bangladeshis of Brick Lane, and now the gay community
in Soho - at the minorities in this country.

They are wrong, badly wrong. It is these evil bigots who are the minority. They
are the real outsiders, the pathetic outcasts. And that is where they will
remain.

These thugs have no place in modern Britain. They don't share the values which
link the overwhelming majority of people in this country.

Values which say that in today's Britain there is no home for the politics of
hatred.

Values which are driving us to build a society where there is opportunity for
all, where the barriers of prejudice are dismantled.

It's why these bombings have not led, as the those behind them hoped, to the
shattering of this society but to a strengthening of it.

We can take real pride in the way entire neighbourhoods, whatever their
background, race, religion or sexuality, have reacted to these outrages.

They have come together to give comfort and support to each other. To work with
the police to ensure we catch those responsible and bring them to justice. To
demonstrate that the bombers won't win, that we are stronger than them.

We can't be complacent. The death of Stephen Lawrence, the failure to bring his
killers to justice, and the blind hate displayed by the thugs behind the
bombings in London, show that we have a long way to go.

But I have no doubt that the way the country has reacted in recent weeks shows
we are not just capable of working together to build a more modern Britain and a
more decent society but that that is what is wanted. And with very good reason.
Because we don't just have to look at home to see what can happen if we don't
stand up to prejudice and hatred.

For every Kosovar Albanian refugee is fleeing from prejudice and hatred, from
bigotry and intolerance.

N entire community is being terrorised just because they are different.

Mass murder, mass rape, whole villages torched. Hundreds of thousands of people
forced at gunpoint to flee their homes. They are scenes not witnessed in Europe
since the darkest days of the Second World War. Scenes of barbarism which we had
hoped and expected we would never see again in our continent.

We could not stand by and do nothing. To do so would have betrayed everything
our country stands for.

It would also have sent a message to dictators everywhere that you can do what
you like, sink to any level of depravity, and we will simply wash our hands.

The NATO action against Milosevic and his war machine is not just driven by our
support for democracy and justice. It is also driven by our respect for people
of all religions, faiths and nationalities.

It is why NATO has remained united.

Why we are determined to continue our action until the Kosovar Albanian refugees
are able to return home in safety and peace.

It is why the overwhelming majority of people in this country, of all
backgrounds, support the NATO action, our objectives and the decent values which
underpin them.

It is why too, the air campaign is being intensified day by day. We can be proud
of the professionalism and courage of our forces.

And let me assure Sunday People readers the air campaign is working. It is
having a real impact on Milosevic.

The day before yesterday NATO flew more than 600 sorties and attacked the brains
behind the brutality. Milosevic's military headquarters, and command and control
centres in Belgrade were hit.

N the last 24 hours, another 600 sorties were flown. His radio transmitters in
seven different locations were damaged or destroyed.

We are severing the link between him and his forces on the ground in Kosovo.

The brutal forces which are carrying out his vile ethnic cleansing are being
isolated, starved of ammunition, fuel and other vital supplies and increasingly
targeted by NATO's round-the- clock operations.

It is a fight between good and evil. For tolerance and against bigotry. A fight
we will continue tirelessly at home against racism and in Kosovo against ethnic
cleansing.

It is fitting that I am today going to Birmingham to join in the celebrations to
mark the 300th anniversary of the founding of the Khalsa, the Sikh brotherhood.

It is an anniversary of immense importance to the Sikh community here in
Britain, the largest number of Sikhs outside the Punjab. They have made a huge
contribution to our national life.

It is an anniversary which celebrates the tolerance and respect at the heart of
the Sikh faith. It is a message that could not be more relevant.

I believe these good, decent values are shared by the vast majority of people,
of all faiths and none in this country.

They are values which belong to us all, values of a confident, modern country.

They are values of a society which shows we are no longer afraid of our
diversity but have the confidence to celebrate it.

We must ensure the bigots and cowards do not win, either in the hills of Kosovo
or at home on the streets of London.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              284 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

LONDON IRISH ARE LIVING IN TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 170 words


FEARS were growing last night that London's Irish community could be the next
target for racist thugs who murdered three in a nail bomb blast.

The Irish are on the neo-Nazis' sickening hit list along with ethnic groups,
gays and left wingers.

Friday night's bomb was the work of evil hate group the White Wolves which has
outrageously ordered black and Asian people out of Britain.

Irish community leaders in the British capital say they are warning people to be
on their guard.

Police were last night still holding a man in connection with the attacks
following a dawn swoop in a quiet village.

He was being quizzed about the blast at the Soho gay bar and the other two bombs
which have pounded London in the last three weeks.

They said that 'combustible material' had been found during a search of his
house.

He is thought to have been held following police scrutiny of a security camera
videotape showing a young man in a white cap near the scene of the Brixton
bombing two weeks ago.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              285 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                                  May 2, 1999

POLICE HUNT SUSPECT WHO PLANTED BAG IN GAY PUB ATROCITY

BYLINE: Mark Watts and Conal Walsh

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 467 words


Detectives were last night hunting a man in a yellow baseball cap who dumped a
bag in the Soho gay bar just before the blast.

Drinkers say the suspect, who had a blond goatee beard, strolled into the
Admiral Duncan pub in Old Compton Street on Friday evening and left the grey
Adidas sports bag minutes later just before the blast.

The man, wearing a blue and yellow T-shirt, was spotted in nearby Dean Street
when the nail-bomb ripped through the packed bar.

The neo-Nazi group White Wolves claimed responsibility for the pub bombing.
Security sources fear the splinter group was helped in its terror campaign by
Serb militias.

Some members of the White Wolves, named after a Serbian militia group, joined
the Serbs as mercenaries in the Yugoslav war. Sunday Business disclosed five
weeks ago that security services were on alert for a Serb-sponsored terrorist
"revenge" attack.

A week before the Brixton blast, the White Wolves are believed to have sent
stencilled threats to prominent black, Jewish and Asian people, and media
outlets. They warned Jews and non-whites to leave the country before the end of
the year or they would be "exterminated".

Jack Straw, the home secretary, said he had no plans to ban extreme right-wing
groups. "I would require a lot of convincing before even seeking powers to do
so."

Yesterday, flowers were left on the pavement outside the Soho pub with messages
for the three people who died and the many others left badly injured.

The flowers lay among the makeshift bandages strewn about from the night before
that were used to stem the flow of blood from the injuries of the wounded. One
message read: "Wishing peace for the dead and recovery for the many injured. An
evil act committed by cowards."

Forensic scientists and anti-terrorists officers raked over the bomb scene,
searching for clues. The area around the pub remained cordoned off yesterday.

The route of a protest march against the bombings was altered yesterday to take
in Soho. The marchers started in Brixton and held a rally in Trafalgar Square.

Members of the Bangladeshi community in Brick Lane are planning to stage another
march today.

In Notting Hill, the normally-bustling Portobello market was virtually deserted.
Traders said there was a "weird atmosphere" as shoppers feared another
marketplace bomb.

As other minority groups fear they will be the next neo-Nazi terror targets,
Tony Blair will today speak of the need for tolerance and an end to racial
hatred in Britain as well as in Kosovo.

The prime minister will say at the celebrations in Birmingham to mark 300 years
of the Khalsa, a Sikh brotherhood: "The only good thing that can come out of
these nail-bombs is that the community will be brought together whatever race,
creed or sexuality."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Sunday Business Group

                              286 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

SOHO BOMB: IS THIS THE BOMB FACTORY?;
 NAIL BOMB TERROR: THE POLICE HUNT; SUSPECT HELD AS GUN POLICE RAID HOM E IN
QUIET STREET

BYLINE: Nick Pisa And David Mcgee

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 824 words


IS THIS the lair of the White Wolves, the murderous hate group whose evil leader
has now become the most wanted man in Britain?

Yesterday police swooped on an innocuous-looking house in the heart of suburbia
and led away a man who they claim bears a striking similarity to a man captured
by a closed circuit TV camera at the time of Brixton bombing.

More than 250 neighbours were evacuated as armed officers raided the home in a
quiet Hampshire road. One resident said: "We heard later that the place is a
bomb factory."

But the search still goes on for Del O'Conner, head of the racist gang thought
to be behind the three recent blasts in London.

They include Friday's horrifying nail-bomb attack on a gay pub in Soho which
claimed three lives and injured scores of people.

O'Connor, 39, is thought to have fled to the US. Concerned that he could be
masterminding the terror campaign from there, Scotland Yard's anti- terrorist
squad have now asked the FBI to help locate him.

A police source told the Sunday Mirror: "O'Connor could be the general here. If
he is ordering these attacks from abroad, he must be found and stopped.

"He could be giving orders to gang members all over the UK.

"We urgently need to trace him - he is a very dangerous individual."

Tattooed O'Connor formed the neo-Nazi White Wolves after breaking away from
Combat 18 in 1995. He is known to have attended a skinhead concert in Coventry
last December.

A month earlier, he travelled to Dallas, Texas, to meet with white supremacists.
He was a skinhead in the British Movement in the late Seventies before joining
the Klu Klux Klan and becoming its UK security officer. He has also served time
in prison for vicious assaults.

Though he has vanished, police are convinced his lieutenants are behind the
campaign which is targeting minority groups but terrifying all of Britain.

The drama started for residents of Sunnybank Road and surrounding streets at
2.20am yesterday. Armed police units evacuated them to nearby Farnborough
Leisure Centre amid fears that the suspect property - No 25 - might be booby
-trapped

Officers also sealed off a section of the M3 motorway which runs close to the
smart housing estate.

In a joint operation between the Hampshire force and Scotland Yard, they
arrested a man in his early 20s who they claim bears a close resemblance to the
one in a white baseball cap pictured on video footage taken shortly before the
Brixton blast.

Inside the pounds 90,000 house, which is divided into three flats, police
discovered "significant amounts" of explosives and bomb-making equipment. Two
other people, a man and a woman, also live at the house but are not believed to
be connected with the London bombings. Residents were allowed to return to their
homes at 8am.

Later they were told of the deadly arsenal of explosives after police pinned up
a notice.

Sales engineer Neil Stickley, 47, who lives three doors away from No 25 said:
"The lad they took away looked a bit of a computer nerd.

"Two youngish lads live there - one looks a bit of a scruff and the other, the
one they arrested, a bit geekish. But they kept themselves to themselves."

Mum-of-two Sharon Wells, 34, said: "The guy at the house was in his early 20's
and white. I only knew him well enough to say 'hello' to. 'Police said there
were explosives in the house and that they were searching for more. When they
evacuated us, they didn't even give us time to get dressed properly. It was
basically grab your kids and get away as fast as possible.

"There was a notice at the recreation centre saying they had found explosives.
We've heard that it is a bomb factory."

Designer and local councillor Graham Tucker, 52, said: "We have been told that
there are some bomb-making items and equipment in the house." Another neighbour,
Jill Lamport, said police had told her that the arrest was connected to the
London bombings. And local government officer Frank Gunn, 53, said: "We were all
lead down the street to a pick-up point.

"Everyone was taken to Farnborough Recreation Centre. There were at least 10
police vans around and, at the start, armed police in full view.

"The house is surprisingly well-kept for a rented property. Neat and tidy with
no weeds or peeling paint. We'd not seen the occupants at all."

A police spokesman said yesterday: "We arrested a white male in his early 20s.
He bears a very good likeness to the video still and is being held at a Central
London police station where he will be questioned. Combustible materials,
substances and para phernalia were seized.

"A forensic team will be continuing an examination of the house for a number of
days. Two people lived in the other flats in the house and they have now been
moved to other accommodation."

Meanwhile four other men arrested in connection with the bombing campaign have
all been released on police bail.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FACE OF HATE: Del O'Connor (right, on the left in the picture above and
second from right below) is Britain's most wanted man; RAIDED: The pounds 90,000
house in quiet Cove, near Farnborough, where police squads found explosives in
one of the three flats

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              287 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

SOHO BOMB: WE'LL FIGHT THIS EVIL TOGETHER, PLEDGES BLAIR

BYLINE: Chris Buckland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


TONY Blair will today make an impassioned plea to the people of Britain to rise
up against the evil men responsible for the "hideous" nail bomb attacks.

He will say good can come from the bombings if attacks against minorities spur
everyone "to fight intolerance and fight for the one-nation Britain the decent
majority want."

The Prime Minister will use a speech to 2,000 Sikhs in Birmingham to link the
Soho murders to the obscenity of Serb ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.

Mr Blair says the nail bombs in Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho "have served to
bring the community closer together.

"The majority know there is no place for hatred and bigotry in our society."

On Kosovo the message is the same: "That too is a battle of values. We cannot
stand by while a whole people is being purged. NATO action is not just in
support of justice but the respect we have for religions, faiths and
nationalities."

Hinting at tough new laws against right-wing terrorists he will say: "People
want a society free from prejudice but not free from rules."

Yesterday Home Secretary Jack Straw also declared the British would stand
united.

But he resisted suggestions there should be new laws to ban extremist
organisations saying there were practical objections and adding "I would require
a lot of convincing."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              288 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

The baseball-cap bomber carries death into Soho

BYLINE: Maurice Chittenden and Nicholas Rufford

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 1672 words


Alarm was raised just moments before blast

THE blond man with the goatee beard drew more than a flicker of interest as he
walked into the Admiral Duncan pub just after 6.30pm on Friday night. Disco
music and show tunes filled the bar as dozens of gay men, many of them still in
their work clothes, chatted inside.

There should have been an inkling in someone's mind that something was not
right. The newcomer wore a baseball cap and carried a sports bag, the "uniform"
of the bombers who have brought terror back to London in the past fortnight.

Elsewhere people were on their guard. Across Soho in Chinatown, shop owners had
been warned to report any suspicious objects and police were planning to use a
low-flying helicopter patrol and sniffer dogs to watch for bombers.

Four miles to the north, police with mirrors on long poles had spent the
afternoon searching under cars in Golders Green, north London. The alert
followed a warning received from the "Command Council of the White Wolves"
saying that all non-whites and Jews would be exterminated if they failed to
leave Britain.

Inside the purple exterior of the Admiral Duncan in Old Compton Street, one of
the few down-to-earth pubs on the gay scene serving beer at realistic prices,
the clientele felt relatively safe.

Black-and-white caricatures of macho men lined the walls; the admiral, Nelson's
favourite sailor and victor of the battle of Camperdown over a French and Dutch
armada 202 years ago, stared down from the pub sign. A few tourists, men and
women, wandered in for drinks.

The Pink Paper, a gay newspaper, had warned its readers that the homosexual
community might be targeted because they, too, were a minority. Warnings had
also been sent out by Rank Outsiders, a gay servicemen's organisation.

The police had even visited the Admiral Duncan, giving advice, and displayed
notices about bombs.

It was an easy target. Although a "straight" pub until recent years, it is the
first pub listed in a guide to homosexual bars in Gay Times and is also featured
in a Time Out guide to London bars.

However, customers inside the pub were in good cheer. The Friday evening before
a bank holiday weekend is traditionally a time when gays enjoy themselves as
London quietens with families leaving for the break.

An abandoned bag, described either as a grey Adidas sports bag or a black
holdall, left by the bar was the first indication that something was wrong. The
man in the yellow baseball cap, wearing a blue and yellow T-shirt, had left the
pub. A customer went out in the street to try to find him. The pub's part-time
barmaid, a graphic design student, realised it might be a bomb and alerted the
landlord to call the police.

Inside the bag the minute hand on a mechanical clock reached 6.35pm. In a
plastic container, it was attached by wires to a nail bomb. At least 6lb of
nails and other metal were bundled around the explo sives - the gunpowder was
probably home-made and may have been extracted from fireworks.

Graphic design student Veronica Sande, who was working her last night in the
pub, spotted the bag lying on the floor as she pulled a pint of beer. "I
immediately thought, 'My God, it could be a bomb.' I had heard the descriptions
of the bombs at Brick Lane and Brixton. I shouted over to my manager and pointed
it out to him. He started asking customers but had barely opened his mouth when
there was this huge explosion," the 21-year-old said.

The explosion tore the pub apart and sent a shrapnel shower of 6in nails at
waist-height hurtling across the crowded pub. As the front window looking out
onto a balmy spring evening shattered, people inside and on the pavement outside
were speared by huge shards of glass.

Gary Fellowes described the blast as he was carried bleeding into an ambulance:
"I just saw a blue flash. I was standing by the jukebox and it may have saved
me."

Norwegian born Sande, who had fragments of glass in her legs, arms and legs and
was last night recovering at her flat in Bethnal Green, east London, said: "I
can recall lots of bodies lying around everywhere. I couldn't see my boss. I
don't know what happened to him and I just keep fearing the worst.

"I was in pain and just wanted to get out. I was so desperate to get out that I
climbed over what was left of the bar and crawled over bodies to get to the
door."

Sande's girlfriend, Lucy Masoud, who was three doors away at Accommodation
Outlet, a gay housing agency, said: "I got there straightaway. She was sitting
there drenched in blood. I led her into where I work, took her upstairs and
washed her face. She was hysterical."

Many more were less fortunate. The Admiral Duncan bomb was the most
indiscriminate terrorist attack inside a crowded building in Britain since the
1974 IRA pub bombs in Guildford and Woolwich. One of the dead was a newly
married woman. One senior policeman said: "The IRA were bastards but at least
they usually gave us a warning."

Michelle Verla, 17, was eating in an Italian restaurant across the street from
the pub and saw the first casualties pour out of the smoking building. "I saw
people crawling out, just getting out any way they could," she said. "I looked
up once and saw a guy with just one leg. His other leg had been blown clean off.
Some people had had their clothes blown off them."

Rescuers who ran into the pub found they could not breathe because of the
sulphur vapours from the gunpowder in the bomb. The injuries were horrific.
There were bones sticking out of legs and people's faces were burnt.

People did what they could until the first of 21 ambulances arrived. An
air-ambulance helicopter from the Royal London hospital landed in Trafalgar
Square to drop doctors and medical equipment close to the scene.

The nails were blown as far as 50 yards around the scene of the blast and one
police car got a puncture driving over nails in the street.

Suzi Godson, a graphic designer, was in the Minty bar, two doors away from the
Admiral Duncan. "Glass and people came flying by the window," said Godson, 34,
who last weekend was close to the scene of the bomb near her home in Brick Lane,
east London. "People emptied out their champagne buckets to provide ice for the
injured."

A priest ran around in the street trying to help people. He bent down to one
severely injured man who was covered in blood and started murmuring words of
prayer.

By the time the first paramedic arrived by motorcycle at 6.41pm, two people were
dead. Ken Murphy, a paramedic from the London Ambulance Service, said the scene
inside was like a demolition site. "Lots of stuff was burnt, there was glass,
bits of wood, the ceiling had come down partially," he said.

"There were no lights at all and people were moaning and groaning. There was
lots of blood and arms and legs amputated. Bodies were twisted, limbs were in
places you would not expect them to be."

So many and so severe were the injuries that ambulance crews set up a pavement
control point to separate the dead, injured and walking wounded. The technique
had been developed by army surgeons to cope with battlefield injuries. A
film-editing suite opposite the pub was turned into a temporary mortuary.

The casualties were ferried by ambulances to four London hospitals. Nurses at
University College hospital (UCH) were on standby, but were shocked by the state
of the victims who an hour earlier had been drinking or chatting with friends.

"Someone had a foot off, another had half a hand missing and some people had
bits hanging off their legs. It reminded me of looking at war pictures of
soldiers who had been obliterated by shell-fire," said one nurse.

One woman had a 6in nail laceration across her face. Another man, who had 30%
burns, was not able to move but could talk. He was just concerned that someone
should telephone his mother.

Justin Cobb, consultant orthopaedic surgeon at UCH, said: "All seven victims
admitted here were young men with devastating injuries. There was a dreadful
smell of burnt hair and flesh and three operation theatres were made ready to
attend to these very, very badly damaged people."

Along the labyrinthine passages of the UCH, the families and friends of the
victims were herded into a "therapeutic ward" by nervous staff. There they sat
huddled in a room, awaiting word about their loved ones. They included a couple
who had heard that their young son had been hurt, a young woman who was anxious
for news about her brother, and a young couple who had been only minutes away
from joining their friend in the Admiral Duncan.

At 8.30pm on Friday a caller to a London radio station claimed responsibility
for the bomb on behalf of the White Wolves neo-fascist gang. A message posted on
an Internet bulletin board by a Southampton member of the British National party
claimed the "faggots" had been "taught a good lesson".

Julie Waterson, of the Anti-Nazi League, said: "I've never met a Nazi who is
gay-friendly. Gays are usually very anti-racist, so sadly it does not come as a
great surprise."

As Soho woke up yesterday it quickly returned to what it is famous for. Some
people sat in cafes reading newspapers and watching the world go by. But all
around were the remnants of the explosion which ripped through the heart of the
area on Friday evening.

Just by the Admiral Duncan were two skips. In them were the remnants of what had
been inside the pub, including chairs, wood and a blood-soaked purple canvas
screen.

Wellwishers had placed flowers at both ends of the cordoned-off area of Old
Compton Street. One accompanying note on a bouquet of pink and white flowers
read: "To the deceased: eternal rest; the injured: eternal strength. An evil act
caused by cowards."

Reporting team: Maurice Chittenden, Nicholas Rufford, Paul Nuki, Lois Rogers,
Steve Farrar, Judith O'Reilly, Sarah Toyne, Tom Robbins, Edin Hamzic, Chris
Broadhurst, Sumit das Gupta, Jack Grimston, Trushar Barot, Tim Tezisler


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Bomb; London Nail Bombs

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              289 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                              May 2, 1999, Sunday

BIRMINGHAM TARGETED BY NAIL BOMBERS

BYLINE: Sunday Mercury Reporting Team

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 769 words


THE Midlands was gripped by fear last night amid worries the region could become
the next target for race-hate extremists.

Security is being stepped up following the third sickening bomb attack by a
right-wing group.

Three people died and six victims are fighting for their lives after the latest
nail bomb blast - on a gay bar in London's Soho.

It was the third attack in the capital in the last two weeks, following earlier
explosions in Brixton and Brick Lane.

A man arrested in a swoop in Hampshire was last night being questioned by
police.

A group called the White Wolves, a sinster band of neo-nazis which broke away
from right-wing paramilitaries Combat 18, has claimed responsibility for the
atrocity.

In a written warning, they have stated Birmingham is one of their next targets.

The fear is that Irish and Jewish communities will be next on the terrifying
"hate list" of minorities - after Afro-Caribbeans in Brixton, Asians in Brick
Lane and homosexuals in Soho.

A huge police presence will guard Tony Blair and his wife Cherie when they visit
Birmingham today. They are attending a conference at Symphony Hall for the
Vaisakhi Festival to celebrate 300 years of the Sikh religion.

And the spectre has been raised of a war between the races, after one community
leader warned of a possible backlash from threatened minorities.

Joe Allen, of the Montserrat Community Association in Leicester, said: "People
are not going to lie down and take this kind of attack. They are already having
meetings, to see what should be done. There is a very strong possibility that if
this continues, people will arm themselves.

"It's a very worrying prospect which would destroy all the progress we have made
with race relations. If we're not careful we could see vigilante-style
operations and full race war in Britain."

West Midlands Police yesterday put up 5,000 posters warning people to be on the
alert for terrorist devices. The posters, displaying graphics of various
explosive devices, were being displayed in community centres, halls, libraries
and temples.

Last night, Maxi Hayles, chairman of Birmingham Racial Attacks Monitoring Unit,
said: "The current situation is like living in the Blitz. Dozens of people have
called us, fearing for their own lives and those of their families.

"We have to be especially careful in areas where the black and Asian community
congregate, because these are the places which are being targeted."

Birmingham City Council leader Theresa Stewart said: "I am horrified and
appalled at this latest vile attack."

Yesterday, there was horror and grief among the Birmingham homosexual community.

Andy Chaffer, of the Coalition of Gay and Lesbian Rights, said: "We are used to
queer bashing - but not people laying bombs.

"There is fear spreading through the gay community in Birmingham. We don't know
who is going to be hit next and anywhere with even one gay venue could be a
target.

"We urge people to keep alert to their surroundings but to carry on living their
lives."

Birmingham's Irish population, estimated at between 150,000 and 200,000, makes
up the city's largest ethnic group.

Father Frank Ryan director of the Irish Welfare Centre in Birmingham said:
"These extremists have targeted blacks, Asians and gays - there is a possibility
the Irish could be next. It is something we have to be aware of. We have been
checking all the letters at our office for bombs."

David Blain, chairman of Birmingham Progressive Synagogue, said: "It is very
sad. We have not learnt the lessons of the Holocaust."

Mohan Singh, secretary of the Council of Sikh Gurdwaras, said community leaders
have been visiting 14 temples across Birmingham to warn them about possible
attacks. He said the London nail bombs had left Birmingham's 40,000 -strong Sikh
population in shock.

Meanwhile in Walsall, where Combat 18 has an active cell of about 20, police
were keeping a high profile.

Superintendent Graham Hodgetts, of Walsall Police, said: "We are concentrating
on vulnerable areas, with large ethnic communities."

Fears were also growing in Leicester, which has the highest density Asian
population outside London.

Nahendra Waghela, of the Swaminarayan Hindu Mission, said: "We have been living
happily alongside one another in Leicester for many years. But now there is a
very real threat to everyone within our community."

In Coventry, leaders of the city's large Irish community expressed their horror.

Councillor David Cairns said: "Our community will still be aware of a possible
threat."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON ALERT... Sergeant Simon Cook puts up warning notices in Sparkhill,
Birmingham

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              290 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

SOHO BOMB: POLICE CHARGE BLAST SUSPECT;
 22-YEAR-OLD ACCUSED OF BOMB ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 518 words


A 22-year-old man was last night charged with causing three nail bomb attacks in
London which killed three people and left more than 100 injured.

Engineer David Copeland, arrested at his home on Sunnybank Road, Cove,
Farnborough, Hants, in the early hours of Saturday faces three counts of murder
and three of causing an explosion with intent to endanger life.

Police said an arrest was made after a suspect was identified from CCTV footage
taken in Brixton shortly before the blast there on Saturday April 17.

The bomb in Brixton, which has a large black community, was followed a week
later by an explosion in Brick Lane, a Bengali area.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness said CCTV coverage had played a significant
part in leading to the identification of a man and that once a suspect had been
identified an arrest was made within nine hours.

He added: "There is no suggestion at this stage that the arrest is linked in any
way to the extreme right-wing groups which have been reportedly claiming
responsibility for these attacks on innocent people.

"There appeared, and still appears, to be no trigger event or specific date
which has sparked these attacks which were clearly the responsibility of the
same person."

He said it was not believed there was any link between the bombings and a hate
mail campaign which has featured in media coverage surrounding the
investigation.

Police believed the bomber had been working alone for his own motives, said Mr
Veness.

He said police officers had seized bomb-making equipment including "explosive
material".

He closed a Press briefing yesterday afternoon by saying no more details about
the investigation would be released, adding: "The last thing that you, or I,
would want to do would be to hamper the chances of a fair trial."

The charges were announced at a news conference at Scotland Yard yesterday
afternoon by Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry.

He said Copeland would remain in custody until he appeared at West London
Magistrates Court at 10am tomorrow.

Mr Fry said Copeland was arrested by unarmed officers from the Organised Crime
Squad Flying Squad and charged today by officers from the Anti-Terrorist Branch.

Tony Blair yesterday told an international convention of Sikhs in Birmingham
that he compared the fight against hatred and prejudice at home to Nato's battle
against ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.

"When one section of our community is under attack, we defend them in the name
of all the community. When bombs attack the black and Asian community in
Britain, they attack the whole of Britain," said the Prime Minister.

"The true outcasts today, the true minorities, those truly excluded are not the
different races and religions of Britain but the racists, the bombers, the
violent criminals who hate that vision of Britain and try to destroy it.

"But they shall not win. The great decent majority of British people will not
let them. We will defeat them and then we can build the tolerant, multiracial
Britain the vast majority of us want to see."

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAGEDY: Andrea Dykes died in the pub bombing while husband Julian is
still fighting for his life; Scene: the Soho pub

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              291 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  May 3, 1999

Bombs police team charge suspect;Londoners thanked

BYLINE: William Tinning

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 611 words


AN engineer was last night charged with causing three nail bomb attacks in
London which killed three people and left more than 100 injured.

Mr David Copeland, 22, was arrested at his home in Cove, Farnborough, Hampshire,
early on Saturday. He faces three counts of murder and three of causing an
explosion with intent to endanger life. He is expected to appear at West London
Magistrates Court today.

Police said an arrest was made after a suspect was identified from CCTV footage
taken shortly before the blast in Brixton on Saturday April 17.

The bomb in Brixton, which has a large black community, was followed a week
later by an explosion in Brick Lane, a Bengali area.

In the latest attack, on Friday, Mrs Andrea Dykes, 27, who was four months
pregnant, was one of three people killed by a bomb which devastated the Admiral
Duncan pub in an area of Soho popular with the gay community.

Her husband Julian, 25, is fighting for his life in hospital with severe burns
and nails lodged in his lungs. He is unaware that his wife, unborn child, and
his best man, Mr John Light, 32, died in the blast.

Assistant Metropolitan Police Commissioner David Veness yesterday said CCTV
coverage had played a significant part in leading to the identification of a
man. An arrest was made within nine hours of a suspect being identified.

There was no suggestion at this stage that the arrest was linked in any way to
extreme right-wing groups which had claimed responsibility for the attacks, Mr
Veness said. "There appeared, and still appears, to be no trigger event or
specific date which has sparked these attacks which were clearly the
responsibility of the same person."

Mr Veness said he believed the bomber had been working alone for his own
motives. Police officers had seized bomb-making equipment.

Mr Alan Fry, Metropolitan Police Deputy Assistant Commissioner, said Mr Copeland
had been arrested by unarmed officers from the Organised Crime Squad Flying
Squad and charged by officers from the Anti-Terrorist Branch.

Mr Veness thanked the people of London and the rest of Britain for their
"support, vigilance, fortitude, and resilience" and the media for their
"constant support" during the investigation.

However, he warned of complacency, and added: "There is always the chance of
facing the unpredictability and diversity of terrorist threats."

Earlier Prime Minister Tony Blair compared the fight against hatred and
prejudice at home to Nato's battle against ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.

He told an international convention of Sikhs in Birmingham: "When one section of
our community is under attack, we defend them in the name of all the community.
When bombs attack the black and Asian community in Britain, they attack the
whole of Britain.

"When the gay community is attacked and innocent people are murdered, all the
good people of Britain, whatever their race, their lifestyle, their class, unite
in revulsion and determination to bring the evil people to justice.

"The true outcasts today, the true minorities, those truly excluded are not the
different races and religions of Britain but the racists, the bombers, the
violent criminals who hate that vision of Britain and try to destroy it."

Mr Jonathan Street, NHS spokesman in London, last night said 19 people were
still in hospital following the Soho bomb blast, six of whom remain critical.

Howard Baderman, North London University College Hospital accident and emergency
consultant, said some of the victims' injuries were so horrific his staff - from
consultants to nurses to porters to telephonists - were likely to need
counselling.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              292 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

LONER IS CHARGED OVER GAY AND RACE BOMBS

BYLINE: Andrew Mullins And Kathy Marks

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 522 words


AN ENGINEER from Hampshire will appear in court this morning charged with
planting three nail bombs in London and with the murder of three people who died
after Friday evening's explosion in a gay pub in Soho.

David Copeland, 22, was charged yesterday as 19 victims of the blast remained in
hospital with burns and other injuries. Four are still on the critical list.

Police said they believed Mr Copeland, of Sunnybank Road, Farnborough, had been
acting alone, and that he was not a member of any of the far- right groups -
including Combat 18 and the so-called White Wolves - that have claimed
responsibility for the bombings.

He was detained on Saturday during an early-morning swoop on his home by unarmed
officers from the Metropolitan Police's Organised Crime Group. Forensic
specialists took away a number of items including "explosive material".

Those critically injured by Friday's bomb in the Admiral Duncan pub in Old
Compton Street, Soho, included Julian Dykes, 25, from Colchester, Essex. Last
night he was unaware that the explosion had killed his pregnant wife, Andrea,
27, and their best man, John Light, 32, also of Colchester.

The third fatality was identified yesterday as Nick Moore, 31, a London office
worker. His family confirmed that he had been gay.

As well as claiming three lives, the three nail bombs of the past fortnight,
planted in Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho, injured a total of 130. Three people
injured in Brixton are still in hospital.

Public revulsion at the toll exacted by the bombs was articulated yesterday by
the Prime Minister. Addressing an international convention of Sikhs in
Birmingham, Tony Blair said that an attack on one community was an attack on
Britain as a whole.

"When the gay community is attacked and innocent people are murdered, all the
good people of Britain, whatever their race, their lifestyle, their class, unite
in revulsion and determination to bring the evil people to justice," he said.

Mr Copeland, who was remanded in custody, was charged by officers from the
Anti-Terrorist Branch with murder and with three counts of causing an explosion
with intent to endanger life. He was due to appear before West London
magistrates' court at 10am today.

David Veness, Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner, thanked the public
yesterday for its "support, vigilance, fortitude and resilience". Hesaid
closed-circuit television coverage had played a significant part in leading to
the identification of a man and that once a suspect had been identified an
arrest was made within nine hours.

Mr Veness said: "The man is not a member of any of the groups which made claims
of responsibility for the bombs, nor did he make any of the claims using their
names." Police believed the bomber had been working alone for his own motives,
he said.

He said police did not believe that he was responsible for the hate mail sent in
recent weeks to prominent black, Asian and Jewish figures, and to ethnic
-minority groups and newspapers.

Nail bombings, pages 2, 3; Leading article, Review, page 3; Philip Hensher,
Review, page 5

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              293 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 3, 1999, Monday

MONITOR: ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD - THE SUNDAY NEWSPAPERS REFLECT ON T HE
RECENT NAIL BOMB ATTACKS IN LONDON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 322 words


IF THE dangerous lunatics who call themselves White Wolves think their sick
cause has been advanced by three callous bombings they are gravely mistaken. All
their obscene campaign has achieved is to unite the minorities they attacked
with the rest of Britain.

News of the World

WE HAVE to face the fact that the mindless extremism that has shattered innocent
lives in London's Soho, Brick Lane and Brixton does exist on the outer fringes
of our society. A new campaign is needed to resist intolerance and kill the
poison that leads to such violence. Bigots must become social outcasts as well
as legally at risk.

The Sunday Times

WHOEVER BOMBED the shoppers in Brixton, the crowd in Brick Lane and the gay
drinkers in Soho may have Fascist ideas. But they are not Fascists in the old
sense and can't be. The original Fascists, the original Nazis, were the armed
tip of a mass movement. They represented, in many places, the majority. They
spoke for millions. They don't today. Though today's bombers are attacking
"minority communities", they are themselves the smallest minority of all.

The Observer (Andrew Marr)

NO MATTER with what perverted care the bombers have drawn up their hit- list,
their murderous and dastardly campaign is an assault on our whole society, every
member of which is a potential victim. At this time of trial, the most important
majority of all - the millions of decent and fair-minded citizens - must close
ranks and show their contempt for the tiny, extremist minority within.

The Mail on Sunday

THE WHITE Wolves should not be seen as "politically motivated", for they do not
understand what politics is. They are horrible, hideous criminals, and they must
be treated as such.

The Sunday Telegraph

THERE ARE racists and homophobes in Britain in 1999, and they are armed and
dangerous. But Britain is not in itself racist or homophobic.

The Independent on Sunday

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              294 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 4, 1999, Tuesday

TERROR ON THE INTERNET

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1513 words


THE nail bombers have struck again, this time leaving in their wake death and
dreadful injury.

It raises the question: where do they get the know-how to make these bombs?

The Government has banned hand-guns to clamp down on violent crime. There are
laws to prohibit the possession of other life-threatening weapons. Yet the
information these terrorists seek seems to be easily available on the Internet.

It is time that the authorities banned this sort of thing, and cleared it all
off the computer screens.

Perhaps if it had been done earlier, there might not have been the bomb attacks
in London, and those children might have still been alive at their high school
in America.

It is a ludicrous situation when you cannot take an umbrella into some football
grounds, but you can learn how to make a bomb at the push of a button in your
own home.

John Reynolds,

Edgbaston

Reasons why

THE Home Secretary says there are a number of good reasons why he cannot even
consider banning extremist right-wing groups.

Perhaps I might be able to give him at least two good reasons why he should do
just that - the two who died when the Admiral Duncan pub was attacked by the
nail bombers on Friday night.

Mr Straw should come down from cloud cuckoo land and take a long look at
reality. Blood is being spilled on our streets.

GH,

Selly Oak

Hate goes on

I AM appalled by Combat 18 and other racist groups.

I was born in London in 1962 and the main reason we moved to Birmingham was the
racism and poverty my mother and I endured.

I am now 36 years old and racism is very much alive. When English people visit
our country, they live in peace and happiness, and many refuse to come back to
Britain.

I am Asian. Why should I endure racism in this country? Why should I put up with
humiliation and unhappiness?

Miss E Dookhan,

Hockley

Under fire

ONCE again the anti-gun lobby is in full cry.

The government and police know the recent ban accomplished nothing of real
value. Guns were handed in by individuals who had no intention of using them
illegally. The real villains in our midst still have their guns, and will use
them when they feel inclined to do so.

Personally, I find it better to acknowledge an unpleasant truth than to live in
cloud cuckoo land.

Keith Draper,

Alum Rock

Lack of logic

AS WE can see from recent events, the ill-thought gun legislation has done
nothing to take guns off the streets. On the contrary, the black market in guns
is now a flourishing business.

Only the sportsman has suffered through the knee-jerk legislation brought on by
pressure from the emotional, and not the logical, lobby.

S T Vaughan,

Yardley Wood

Political bite

THE dog attack on Deirdre Alden, the Tory candidate for Edgbaston, is a cause
for concern. It could have been the postman or a small child.

My own election agent was also attacked by a dog this week, needing hospital
treatment.

As with the attack on Deirdre Alden, the dog by the letterbox appeared to be
completely silent.

Letter baskets or boxes would help prevent these unfortunate incidents as would
a different positioning of the letterbox.

Barrie Roberts,

Acocks Green

(PICTURE LETTER)

A FAIR PERFORMANCE

I WAS delighted to see that the Evening Mail gave Ulrika Jonsson a fair hearing
in its review of 'The Pajama Game'. She has never set out to be a singer, but I
thought she did very well. It was a most enjoyable show, and I wish her every
success.

Mary Lomas, Kings Heath

Cold comfort

I HAD to laugh when I read that postal workers were on strike because of the
cold inside the sorting office. Police, ambulance, firemen and milkmen are out
in temperatures below zero at all hours of the night and morning. And what about
the Kosovo refugees?

F J, Yardley

Society thanks

AS CHIEF Executive of Coventry Building Society, may I thank the 1,000 members
who voted at our AGM. An overwhelming proportion supported the board's stance to
remain a building society. We take great encouragement from this.

Martin Ritchley, Coventry

Samaritans

I MUST thank the kind people who looked after my injured mother and my two young
children on the No 50 bus in Alcester Road South, Kings Heath after the driver
had to make an emergency stop.

A Porter, Kings Heath

Welcome back

How good to see that our Benny is back! The news that Paul Henry is planning to
return to TV is welcome. He was the mainstay of 'Crossroads' with his friendly
face and innocent character.

Mrs F Hodges, Northfield

Not enough

THE Labour chairman of the Transportation Committee says that the electorate
will be impressed by the pounds 3 million increase in the road maintenance
budget. Although welcome, it falls far short of the estimated pounds 150 million
required to prevent city roads becoming one gigantic pothole.

Coun. John Alden, Deputy Conservative Leader

(GET IN TOUCH)

SHEILA Lines, who lives in Reading, is trying to trace descendants of Richard
Arnold, born in Ansley in 1825, who married Elizabeth Alton. They had children
named Ann, George, Sarah, Mary, Richard, Samuel, Harriet, Charles, Emma,
Elizabeth, Thomas and Francis! If you can help, write to Sheila at PO Box 2763,
Reading RG30 4GB.

Would you have a love tattoo?

Darren Day has had the name of his fiancee tattooed on his arm, and David
Beckham (pictured) boasts his baby's name on his back. Would YOU go under the
needle?

YES

IF YOU love somebody so much, then what's so wrong with telling the world about
it? I think it's a tremendous thing to do - a sign for all to see that you are
making a commitment to the woman you love.

It's not something I'd do on a whim. It would have to be a very special
relationship, but then I'd have no hesitation. I have friends who have had
tattoos, and they're still together.

If you don't want it to be obvious, you can always have the tattoo on part of
your body that will be hidden by your clothes, but that rather defeats the
object, doesn't it?

F Wayne, Selly Park

NO

MY FATHER in law was in the Navy during the war and he has several names of
girlfriends on his arm. It must have been awful for his bride when they walked
up the aisle, knowing they were there.

If you have a tattoo like this, and then break up, you are stuck with it unless
you want to undergo the expensive process of having it removed. It makes no
sense at all to do something so drastic.

There are so many other ways of showing affection, but this is a mistake. It's
also a turn-off. I don't think that many of us women like to see tattoos on our
men. They look unsightly and ugly.

A Pearce, Erdington

LAST NIGHT

we asked if you would heed the new sun tan warnings.

YES 60%

NO 40%

Life or death decision on hours

DO YOU want junior doctors who have been on their feet for up to 65 hours a
week, making life or death decisions about you and your loved ones?

Despite a recent spate of cases in which patients have died as a result of the
overwork put on the shoulders of these young trainees, the Government intends to
increase the 56 hours a week they are supposed to work.

Labour used the public outcry over the workload of junior doctors as an emotive
issue to help tap deep misgivings about the NHS while in opposition. It would be
an appalling display of political betrayal if they now stab those trainee
doctors in the back.

The European Union wants their maximum working week cut to 48 hours and is
prepared to accept an upper limit of 54 hours while the changes are phased in.

The best the Government can offer is to raise the ceiling to 65 hours, and then
cut it to 60 hours after eight years.

Ministers insist the measures are needed as it takes 15 years to train a
specialist, but if they are serious about driving up quality in the NHS they
must abandon this increase in hours and invest the cash to protect both patients
and doctors.

This is about more than balance sheets. It is about doctors too tired to think,
let alone make the right diagnosis, when they have your life in their hands.

A ploy for peace

FRESH from his tour of the refugee camps on the frontline, Tony Blair's
suggestion today that Serbia might one day play a part in the NATO fold is not
the political gamble it may at first appear.

Offering a ray of hope to the fiercely proud people of the nation with which we
are effectively at war is a manoeuvre designed to bring pressure to bear upon
Slobodan Milosevic from within.

The air strikes have failed to accomplish a swift end to the human tragedy of
Kosovo, and NATO is loath to send in the ground troops if there is the
possibility of any other alternative to spilling allied blood.

Mr Blair's ploy echoes the past. In 1945, Germany was still under the iron fist
of Hitler but within 10 years had re-established democracy, joined NATO and was
in at the birth of the European Union.

We must hope that, in this case, history repeats itself. For all the right
reasons.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              295 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                         May 4, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Moving vigil to victims of pub horror - Large crowd pays tribute hours after
visit by Charles

BYLINE: By PADRAIC FLANAGAN

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 374 words


   A midnight vigil to mourn the victims of the Soho nail bomb blast drew a
large crowd early today, hours after the Prince of Wales saw for himself the
devastation caused by the explosion.

In a defiant message after touring the site of Friday's blast in a Soho gay pub,
the prince said the British will never be beaten by bombers and terrorists.

Dignified

Shortly after midnight today, members of the London Gay Men's Chorus gathered up
the sprawling bouquets of flowers and messages outside the bomb-shattered
Admiral Duncan pub.

In a dignified procession watched by crowds lining Old Compton Street, they
walked several hundred yards to Soho Square where the flowers were laid to
create a makeshift garden of remembrance.

"We wanted to have somewhere for people to come to, where they could stop and
spend some time to reflect on what has happened, said Steve Bustin, chairman of
the London Gay Men's Chorus.

Yesterday, a man accused of killing three people and injuring 117 others in the
three London nail bomb explosions appeared in court.

David James Copeland, 22, of Sunnybank Road, Cove, Farnborough, Hants, was
remanded in custody for seven days at West London Magistrates Court.

He is charged with three counts of murder and three of "unlawfully and
maliciously" causing an explosion "of a nature likely to endanger life or cause
serious injury to property" following the Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho bombings.
Copeland's father Stephen Copeland, from Yateley, Hants, said the family was
devastated and mystified by his son's arrest.

Through the intercom at his home, Mr Copeland said: "If David is guilty of these
awful acts of violence, then we also totally condemn him.

"As you can imagine, we are completely devastated by the events of this weekend.

Horrified

"We cannot begin to imagine how terrible the families of the killed and injured
must be feeling today."

He spoke as the Prince toured bomb-damaged Soho and later visited victims of the
Admiral Duncan pub blast at St Thomas's Hospital.

He told hospital staff that he was "horrified" by the injuries suffered by the
victims.

A total of 19 people are still in hospital - five of whom are critical - as a
result of the pub bomb.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROYAL VISIT - the Prince of Wales looks at the sprawling bouquets of
flowers at the Admiral Duncan pub

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              296 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                  May 4, 1999

MY GRIEF, BY BOMB SUSPECT'S FATHER;
 Family's shock as son is charged

BYLINE: Graham Keeley

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 613 words


THE father of the man accused of the London nail bombings wept yesterday as he
condemned the "barbaric" attacks.

Stephen Copeland, aged 53, spoke out as his son David appeared in court
following the outrages which killed three people and left 117 injured.

The heating engineer broke down as he talked to reporters at his home in Yately,
Hampshire.

He said: "Myself and my family totally condemn the cowardly and barbaric
bombings carried out in London over the last two weeks.

"Our heartfelt sympathies go out to the families of the bereaved and those who
are grieving at this time.

"If David is guilty of these awful acts of violence then we also totally condemn
him for carrying them out.

"As you can imagine we are all completely devastated by the events this weekend.

"We cannot begin to imagine how terrible the families of the killed and injured
must be feeling today.

"We are all mystified to learn that David could be responsible for all these
bloody bombings, but until all the facts are clearly known we can say nothing
further."

The curtains at Mr Copeland's comfortable home in the village were drawn and a
sign outside said: 'Visitors by appointment only'.

Yesterday his 22-year-old son, of Sunnybank Road, Cove, Farnborough, Hampshire,
was remanded in custody by West London magistrates.

He is charged with three counts of murder and three of ''unlawfully and
maliciously'' causing an explosion following the Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho
bombings.

Forensic

Police last night removed boxes from his home for examination by forensic
experts.

An Anti-Terrorist Branch detective said the suspect had not been under
surveillance for any great length of time and was not linked to any terrorist
organisation.

Another man and a woman who were in the same house were not suspects and were
staying with friends nearby.

Neighbours knew little about David Copeland, an engineer who has been living in
the area since September.

Jamie Stickley, 17, said he occasionally saw two men at the house, wearing black
baggy clothes and T-shirts featuring the rock band Iron Maiden.

Detectives who arrested David Copeland said they acted on information received
since the CCTV footage of the Brixton bombing was released.

But police stressed they believed he was not linked to far-Right groups which
claimed responsibility for the bombs which caused terror across Britain.

Meanwhile Prince Charles yesterday toured bomb-damaged Soho and later visited
victims of the Admiral Duncan pub blast at St Thomas's Hospital.

He told hospital staff that he was ''horrified'' by the injuries suffered by the
victims.

At the devastated pub in Soho's Old Compton Street, the prince said: ''The
British never get put down by these things.''

He met community leaders from Soho and Brick Lane and Brixton as well as police
officers, shopkeepers and members of the public.

''Like everyone else I am extremely distressed and shocked to hear about yet
another bomb,'' the prince said.

''My sympathies are very much with all those who were injured and their
families. The important thing is to realise that these are not just attacks on
particular communities but on all of us.''

He added: ''It helps bring people together in a remarkable way and we must build
on that fact.''

A total of 19 people are still in hospital - six of them in a serious condition
- as a result of the pub bomb.

They include Julian Dykes, 25, from Colchester, Essex, who is unaware that his
27-year-old wife Andrea, who was four months pregnant, died in the blast.

Also killed was the couple's best man John Light, 32, a bingo hall manager from
Colchester.


LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              297 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 5, 1999, Wednesday

TORTURE DEFENCE BEGINS IN YEMEN TRIAL

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 466 words


The defence of five Birmingham men on trial for terrorism in the Yemen began
last night after almost three months of prosecution evidence.

Confessions allegedly made by the accused, who all face the death penalty if
convicted, were read out in court before the prosecution case closed on Monday.

Their families returned to Birmingham yesterday after almost four months in the
Yemen because they could no longer afford to stay there.

Last month six lawyers for the Birmingham men resigned amid claims the court in
Aden was ignoring long-running abuse of the defendants' legal rights. The
lawyers returned to the bench a few days later.

Mr Rashad Yaqoob, the men's lawyer in Britain, said yesterday the defence would
focus on the alleged torture of the men and if it was proven by an independent
doctor, there could be no case for prosecution.

He said a medical investigation by a Danish GP last month - organised in secret
by Aden officials - found there were signs of torture. But officials were now
suppressing the report, and were calling for another examination.

Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein
(25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), all deny associating with
armed groups, plotting murder and destruction, and illegal possession of
weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist
atrocities in the Yemen.

They were charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen, and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), of
London, who admitted one charge of forming an armed group but denied charges of
weapons possession.

Mr Yaqoob said they wanted a member of the Physicians for Human Rights, in
America, to inspect the men but their pleas had been ignored.

He said lawyers would also dispute claims that ammunition shown in court in
March was found in the possession of the men when arrested in December.

Mr Yaqoob said the prosecution failed to produce fingerprint evidence of the
ammunition and, therefore, could not link it with the accused men.

He said they met Foreign Office Minister Baroness Symons last Friday and called
for her to appoint a special envoy to the Yemen to resolve the situation.

The accused men's families returned to Birmingham after almost four months in
the Yemen. They had struggled to gain visiting rights and were only allowed
access in the company of armed guards.

Mr Yaqoob said the families could not afford to stay in the Yemen and pay for
the defence team and many had returned home to work.

However, Malik Nassar's father, Nassar Sadhel Hahra Yaifai, has remained with
relatives in Aden.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              298 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                  May 5, 1999

MAYOR TO GET NEW POWER OVER LONDON'S RAILWAY

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 624 words


LONDON'S new mayor will be granted sweeping powers over the capital's commuter
railways after a last-minute change of heart by Government.

Under the new regime, train companies can even be ordered to run extra services
in order to make the best use of scarce track capacity. Glenda Jackson, Minister
for Transport in London, announced the beefed-up powers as the Bill to create a
new city-wide authority entered the two-night Report Stage in the House of
Commons.

The rail measures, which ministers will insert when the Bill reaches the House
of Lords, give the Mayor control over privatised rail services throughout
London. Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott has similar powers in the rest of
Britain.

The Mayor will be able to instruct the rail system's franchising director, and
the new Strategic Rail Authority when it takes over the role. Original draft
laws put the Mayor in charge of the Underground and buses, but offered little
influence over the railways. Ms Jackson said: "We believe this package of
amendments will more fully define the relationship between the Mayor and the
franchising director and give each of them a clear framework of cooperation
within which to work. The franchising director and the Strategic Rail Authority
will retain the final say over rail, but the Mayor will have a crucial role to
play in improving London's rail services."

Opposition parties welcomed the powers, which they said marked an important
shift in policy. MPs last night discussed amendments and new clauses which will
shape the future Mayor and 25-strong Assembly. Both main parties rejected a move
by Liberal Democrat Simon Hughes to put London's hospitals and doctors'
surgeries under the control of the new Assembly.

Minister for London Nick Rayns-ford said: "The Government has no intention of
establishing a Greater London regional health authority under the direction of
the GLA. There is no justification for another tier of health administration."

London's Mayor will have three overriding goals: to boost the capital's economy,
promote social development and improve the environment. The Government dismissed
a Liberal Democrat attempt to extend the list to five, by adding health and
sustainable development. There were concerns from Tory MPs that the Bill gives
the new Mayor responsibility for major issues such as air quality and waste
disposal, but denies him power over the various organisations that work in these
fields.

The Tories argued real power will remain with Whitehall. Sir Sydney Chapman
attacked the Government for providing only a "fig leaf" of devolved power.
Outrage at recent nail bomb attacks swung MPs of all parties behind a move to
prevent extremists from winning an Assembly place. A Government amendment will
ensure parties must win five per cent of votes across London to take a seat
equivalent to around 125,000 votes. The rules will be reviewed after 2000. Mr
Raynsford said a similar rule in Germany had proved "an effective bulwark"
against neo-Nazis or fascists, while allowing the Greens to win seats.

Richard Ottoway, Conservative spokesman for London, said the Tories were
concerned minority parties such as the Greens should be represented even if
their vote fell just short of five per cent. Tory MP John Wilkinson opposed the
five per cent rule, arguing it was safer to allow extremist parties a democratic
voice. He warned: "If they are driven out into the streets then they are much
more likely to pursue their views by violence."

Ken Livingstone said he was worried fascist candidates could use election
broadcasts and leaflets "to stir up the sort of passions which we have seen
leading to deaths on the streets of London in the past few days".


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              299 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 5, 1999

The two-minute Guardian

SECTION: The Guardian Home Page; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 677 words


Drink drive The woman who gave the highest breath test reading recorded has been
jailed 7 Des res Britain's most expensive house is on sale for pounds 35m 7 Cup
run A Roman silver cup decorated with an explicit relief depicting homosexuality
became, at pounds 1.8m, the most costly acquisition ever made by the British
Museum 8 Brave hearts As the elections in Scotland enter their final days, Ewen
Macaskill finds bitter feuds raging 10 Doctor's orders The government has come
under fire after it proposed in Brussels to increase the current 56-hour week
for junior doctors 12 Kohl comeback Helmut Kohl, Germany's former chancellor, is
staging a political comeback by spearheading a campaign to write a new
constitution for Europe 13 Trial starts The trial of four New York police
officers accused of torturing a Haitian immigrant has opened 13 Uganda attack
Western Uganda is under attack from rebels still intent on terrorising the
region and destroying its tourist industry 14 Sterling soars The pound is poised
to go through 3dm today, so making an early entry into Emu increasingly unlikely
26 Ferguson pay rise Manchester United manager Alex Ferguson has agreed a new
salary of pounds 1.5m a year, making him the highest paid manager in the country
and, at last, better paid than his own players at Old Trafford 32

Helmut Kohl Page 13

Quick Crossword G2 page 23 Main, Page 32

Comment & Analysis

Jonathan Freedland Page 19

Analysis European power vacuum The new EU president and commission will not be
in position until the autumn. Does this matter? 19 Comment Jonathan Freedland on
what will be the cultural phenomenon of the summer 19 Charlie Whelan says that
the Tories will be the main beneficiaries from the Scottish election 19 Plus
John Taylor on being a film censor, Robin Cook on the two Europes and Polly
Toynbee on Blair and the war 19 and 20 Leaders The asylum bill must be shelved
plus The scandal of women's pay in universities and Just William 21 Obituaries
Howard Goodman pioneer of modern hospital design, aged 71 22

G2

Heinrich Himmler G2 Cover Story

Michael Billington Page 14

Himmler's diaries Dinner on board his personal train, then a special showing of
But Women Make Better Diplomats - an evening in the life of Hitler's right -hand
man, Heinrich Himmler 2 Francis Wheen 'While the Government's second birthday
has been celebrated by young maidens dancing round mapypoles, another
anniversary has passed unnoticed.

I refer to the electoral humiliation of the Referendum Party' 5 The end of the
affair Four in ten workers have had a fling with a colleague. But what happens
when the love turns to loathing? 6 Surviving divorce When parents divorce and
the children are grown up, the experience for the 'kids' is no less traumatic 8
Responsibility The jury is out on whether parents should take responsibility for
the terrible murders that some children commit 10 American success Michael
Billington reports on why the British and Irish are dominating the Tony
nominations in New York 14 Guidewednesday Now expanded to eight pages, with
Britain's most comprehensive regionalised daily cinema listings 17-24

Society

Where to build Land-hungry developers are digging up greenfield sites while
property lies empty in big cities. Anne Power reports 2 Fields of fear A toxic
pesticide remains in use in Britain and is suspected of killing animals 4 Leeds
united We report on what happened to the first Kosovans to arrive in Britain 6

Guardian Unlimited

www.guardian.co.uk Crucial Premiership action live coverage of Liverpool v Man
Utd, Tottenham v Arsenal and Chelsea v Leeds www.footballunlimited.co.uk Looking
for something? Search our free online archive for Guardian and Observer
articles.

www.newsunlimited.co.uk

zz Guardian Newspapers Ltd, 119 Farringdon Road EC1R 3ER.

Telephone: 0171-278 2332 Fax: 0171-837 2114 / 0171-833 8342 http:
/www.guardian.co.uk.

If you need help to find your way around the paper, or are missing a section,
please call 0800 770777


LOAD-DATE: May 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              300 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 6, 1999, Thursday

DEATH SENTENCE FEARS FOR FIVE IN YEMEN TERROR TRIAL

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 549 words


The families of five Birmingham men on trial in the Yemen for alleged terrorism
fear the death sentence passed on Islamic militants will have disastrous
implications for their trial.

A spokesman for the families of the five said it now seemed "more likely" they
would be convicted and sentenced to die, and claimed they had not had a fair
trial.

The concern follows the conviction of three Islamic militants yesterday for
abducting 16 Western tourists and killing four during a botched rescue attempt
by government troops. They have been sentenced to death.

Three Britons and an Australian died when the troops attempted to free the
hostages on December 29. Nine Britons, two Americans and an Australian survived
the rescue attempt, which the Yemeni government says it launched after learning
the kidnappers had begun killing the captives.

Zein Al-Abidine al-Mihdar, leader of an Islamic Jihad splinter group and one of
the men sentenced to death, called the sentences "unjust and unfair" and vowed
reprisals.

The kidnappers have been linked with a controversial London Muslim cleric, Abu
Hamza, whose son is among ten Britons - including the five Birmingham men - on
trial in the southern Yemeni port city of Aden.

Last night Mr Rashad Yaqoob, the men's lawyer in Britain, said they were
concerned with the death sentences handed down to the Islamic militants.

"We are obviously concerned that this particular trial was not conducted in a
fair and proper manner," he said.

"The fact that it has ended up in sentences of this kind, especially when there
were grave concerns and evidence to suggest that Yemeni government troops were
involved in the massacre, goes to show that though justice appears to be seen to
be done, the reality on the ground is quite a different picture.

"It clearly shows that the Yemeni government wants to seem to be hard on
terrorists but the truth of what happened has not come out.

"It has ominous implications for the Britons, because it shows a certain
mentality, a certain state of mind."

Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein
(25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), all deny associating with
armed groups, plotting murder and destruction, and illegal possession of
weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist
atrocities in the Yemen.

They were charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen, and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), of
London, who admitted one charge of forming an armed group but denied charges of
weapons possession.

The defence of the Birmingham men began on Tuesday after almost three months of
prosecution evidence.

Their families returned to Birmingham after almost four months in the Yemen
because they could no longer afford to stay there.

Mr Yaqoob said the defence would focus on the alleged torture of the men and if
it was proven by an independent doctor, there could be no case for prosecution.

He said lawyers would also dispute claims that ammunition shown in court in
March was found in the possession of the men when arrested in December.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              301 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 6, 1999

Don't cry for me, Cherie;
On competitive compassion l Britain's pricey property obsession l Violence in
the nursery

BYLINE: Catherine Bennett

SECTION: The Guardian Features Page; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 974 words


A strange omission from the attacks on Margaret Thatcher published over the past
few weeks was her eagerness to appear at the bedsides of disaster victims. Lady
Thatcher was something of an innovator in this field: long before Princess Diana
announced that where there was suffering, that was where she wanted to be, and
the Blairs began emoting in public places, she was touring hospital wards,
bringing words of comfort, or being, in the approved style, 'visibly moved'.

As there were many disasters in the 1980s - IRA bombings, the Kings Cross Fire,
Zeebrugge, the Clapham and Purley rail crashes, Hillsborough, Lockerbie, the
sinking of the Marchioness - her ministrations became such a familiar sight that
Private Eye proposed that readers carry a Thatch-Card, stating that in the event
of an accident, they were, in no circumstances, to be visited by her.

She was not the most convincing of humanitarians. Instead of hugging, nestling
or squatting, eye-to-eye, beside the sufferer of the moment, claiming to feel
their pain, Mrs Thatcher preferred to pay tribute to the emergency services,
then offer individual patients some bracing, can-do encouragement. After the
Clapham crash, for example, she assured one survivor, 'I am sure if the doctors
say it will be all right, it will be all right'. Still, Mrs Thatcher spoke from
experience. She had survived the Brighton bombing. The jeering which followed
her hospital tours may have had less to do with her stiffness, than the feeling
that Mrs Thatcher was, as per usual, trespassing on royal territory. It was for
the Queen, not this partisan harridan, to lead the country in a united
expression of horror or sympathy.

Oddly enough, the only people slow to realise the importance of this job were
the royals themselves. Until Princess Diana began to realise her prodigious
caring potential, the most memorable example of royal compassion was the Queen
Mother's war-time expedition to the East End, an occasion on which she was
praised for tactfully wearing pearls rather than her usual diamonds.

By the time the Royal family realised how mutually beneficial an appearance
might be in the aftermath of tragedy, it was too late: Diana had anointed
herself Queen of Hearts. She also had a Private Eye card of her own: 'I, the
undersigned, wish to make it clear that in the event of any injury, mental
breakdown, life-threatening disease or other such personal tragedy, I do not
wish under any circumstances to be visited by the Princess of Wales.' As the
public grief and fury against the Windsors which followed her death
demonstrated, most people felt differently. Unlike Mrs Thatcher, Diana was
brilliant at being visibly moved. Her hugs and big brimming eyes were so much
more effective than the official alternative - regal messages of condolence,
wreath laying, solemn nods from adulterous goons - that the Queen was reduced to
banning her from disasters. Outrages such as the Docklands and Manchester
bombings, and the Dunblane massacre, would be followed, in private, by grotesque
struggles for pre-eminence in public grief. At Dunblane, Diana was banned, the
Queen attended with Princess Anne, followed by the 'bipartisan' appearance of
Major and Blair - whose aides had apparently squabbled, en route, about who
should be first to express their shared grief.

Now, with the Queen found wanting, Diana gone, and a public which reserves its
warmest feelings for figures who reflect its own emotions, the position of chief
mourner and ambulance chaser is more keenly contended than ever. The next
Private Eye card will need extending into a leaflet, featuring everyone from the
Duchess of York to William Hague, with Geri Halliwell thrown in for good
measure. Last week, Fergie, 'felt compelled', on a stopover between flights, to
drop in on the mourners at Columbine High School. The trip earned her a few
column inches, and the satisfaction of telling the American people 'that they're
being supported all over the world.' Clearly, though disuse may have left the
Duchess's philanthropy looking a little rusty, she has not forgotten the
rudiments of disaster visiting, post-Diana. Crouch. Look tearful. Say how much
you care.

Richard Gere came out with the same sort of thing on the Kosovan border: 'For
now, I can just let these people know that people care about them all over the
world'. On Monday, it was the turn of Prince Charles to tell reporters in Soho,
'It helps bring people together in a remarkable way and we must build on that.
The British people are never going to be put down.' A useful reminder, perhaps,
in the week of the Welsh and Scottish elections, enough to attract the
headlines, 'Grief of Prince' - but a poor thing in comparison to the Blairs'
simultaneous performance in the Kosovo refugee camps.

It would have been enough, for political purposes, for Blair to have performed
his high-fives alone, reassuring British doubters that the refugees themselves (
the people who presumably count) are in favour of continued bombing. But he
wanted the refugees to know that they were supported by his wife, as well. The
front-page photographs of a weeping Cherie, wearing silver hearts on her ears
and round her neck, should be enough to convince the public that the Blairs, not
the royals, are Britain's true King and Queen of Hearts.

For it seems they go further, even than Diana, in the primacy they attach to
feelings. One moment, we have Clare Short's stony insistence that refugees stay
where they are. The next, Cherie's tears, and a thousand refugees a week. If the
emotions of the Prime Minister's wife, rather than moral and rational
persuasion, now dictate government policy, then Cherie could be the best hope
for liberal interventionists. Who knows? If she cries hard enough, they might
even send in ground troops.


LOAD-DATE: May 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 14, 1999

Greece furious at travel warning to trave;
Tourism Resorts lose billions as nervous holidaymakers stay away

BYLINE: Helena Smith in Athens, Nicholas Watt, Philip Willan in Rome and Kate
Connolly

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1483 words


Helena Smith in Athens, Nicholas Watt, Philip Willan in Rome and Kate Connolly

A furious row erupted between Britain and Greece yesterday after the foreign
office warned tourists of the dangers of travelling to Greece in the wake of an
upsurge of anti-western terrorism prompted by the Kosovo conflict.

Greek's tourism minister said the advice was 'unfair and incomprehensible' and
hit back by advising Greeks to avoid London after the bomb attacks in the
capital.

'It is unfair and incomprehensible that Britain should issue such directions,'
Evangelos Venizelos said. 'Tourist attacks in the heart of London should
completely deter Greeks who visit London as tourists, for health treatment or to
go on shopping sprees.'

His outburst was prompted by the foreign office's decision to update travel
advice, warning tourists to 'take sensible precautions" after rocket propelled
grenades were fired at three banks in Athens and a bomb was planted at the
city's Intercontinental hotel.

Britain's deputy ambassador to Greece visited the foreign ministry yesterday to
say that London was 'disappointed' by the minister's outburst .

A foreign office spokesman said: 'We were disappointed by the statement because
we have issued commonsense advice to tourists. We are not saying they should not
travel to Greece, we are just saying they should take sensible precautions and
avoid demonstrations.'

More than 500,000 tourists have cancelled trips to northern Greece and the
Ionian islands, which border Albania, in the past month after a dramatic
increase in anti-western terrorism in Athens and at Piraeus, the country's main
port.

The bomb attack at the Athens Intercontinental hotel by a local guerrilla group,
which denounced Nato's 'criminal imperialist campaign', prompted the US state
department to issue a warning on the dangers of travelling to Greece.

Greece is not the only country whose tourism industry is suffering. Millions of
tourists from across Europe and the United States are cancelling holidays to
popular resorts throughout the Balkans and the Adriatic amid fears that the
Kosovo conflict could pose a threat to their safety.

Seasonal holiday jobs are being shed as hotels and resorts see their revenues
fall by hundreds of millions of pounds. Croatia, which has just started to
rebuild its tourism industry along the Dalmatian coast, has been badly hit as
tourists shun the former Yugoslav republic because it shares a border with
Serbia.

Hotels along Italy's southern Adriatic coast, which is home to the Nato airbases
used in the air campaign, are virtually empty, prompting the Bank of Italy to
warn that the country stands to lose 0.2 percentage points off its gross
domestic product as a result of the Kosovo conflict.

One of the most unexpected casualties has been Venice which stands to lose
pounds 34m as cruiseliners cancel visits because of fears that passengers could
be at risk from Nato flights or Serb retaliation.

'The conflict is very definitely having an impact on seasonal jobs,' Alastair
Graham, the head of central and eastern European leisure operations at the
accountancy firm PriceWaterhouseCoopers, said. 'It is a really bad luck story in
Croatia which is heavily dependent on tourism and which was just beginning to
get back on its feet.'

The Association of British Travel Agents insists cancellations are running low,
possibly because British tourists are guaranteed a refund or a change of holiday
only if the foreign office advises against travel to a particular country. Only
China falls into that category after the demonstrations in the wake of the
bombing of its embassy in Belgrade.

However, hoteliers and tour operators in the region say the conflict is having a
devastating impact on business. Greece

Athens is so worried about the threat to its tourist trade there are fears that
pounds 2bn will be lost this year that it has abolished a 15% airport tax in
Corfu, Thessaloniki, Kavala and Alexandroupolis which are all close to the war
zone.

The 'emergency' measure was announced in parliament after tourism fell in
northern Greece by 70% in the wake of the Nato campaign. More than 250,000
American tourists have cancelled trips to Greece, while the half a million
European tourists who drive to Greece each summer are too fearful to make the
journey.

The terrorist attacks have disheartened hoteliers across the country. 'The
attack (at the Intercontinental hotel in Athens) was the worst possible thing
that could have happened to us at the beginning of the tourist season,"
according to Panayiotis Bramos, of the hotel owners' association on Corfu.
'Violent anti-war demonstrations here have also led to big cancellations.'

Greek's tourism minister has launched a big publicity campaign to promote the
country as a place of 'peace and stability". Italy

Tourists are avoiding Italy's southern Adriatic coast after being put off by
television pictures of missile batteries on beaches guarding some of the 19
military bases which have been put at Nato's disposal. Up to 90% of bookings
have been cancelled at one five star hotel near Monopoli, a popular beach resort
close to the Nato base at Gioia del Colle.

Roberta Guerra, sales and marketing manager for Il Melograno, said: 'We have had
a lot of cancellations, especially from the Americans 90% of them have
cancelled, some as far ahead as September."

The cancellations are particularly distressing for hoteliers in Monopoli because
Ms Guerra insists there are no dangers. 'Things are very quiet here," she said.
'People who have come on holiday have not found the catastrophe depicted by the
press. ."

The main consequence of the war, she said, has been the disruption of air
travel.

Despite Ms Guerra's remarks, Rome-Hawk missile batteries nestle in the
vegetation overlooking Monopoli's beaches and fighter planes from the nearby
Nato base at Gioia del Colle, where RAF Harriers are stationed, periodically
roar overhead.

Tourism chiefs in the Puglia region of south-eastern Italy, which lies closest
to the war zone and is home to hundreds of thousands of Albanians, predict they
will lose half their business this year, which means losses of pounds 1bn.

Although Venice is hundreds of miles away from the war zone, the city is
suffering because cruise companies are refusing to take the risk of sailing up
the Adriatic. Luxury cruise companies have all scratched Venice from their
schedules, so 220,000 passengers will miss the city.

Lloyd's List, the daily shipping paper, recently described the city as a 'combat
zone" under a headline 'Death of Venice?'

'War tourists', however, are flocking to Aviano, the north- eastern town that
hosts Italy's busiest air base, to gawp at Nato planes. Croatia

The former Yugoslav republic, which earns 20% of its foreign currency from
tourism, has suffered a devastating drop, threatening to damage the economy just
as it starts to rebuild after its own war. Tourists are put off Croatia because
popular destinations along the Dalmatian coast, such as the historic port of
Dubrovnik and the resort of Split, lie within 150 miles of the Serbian border.

'We have a very serious situation, especially on the Dalmatian coast,' Ana
Manzoni, who runs the Maranta tour agency in Split, said. 'People are afraid
because they connect Croatia with ex-Yugoslavia and in turn Albania. They can't
separate us in their minds.'

Ms Manzoni has been forced to offer discounts in an attempt to lure back Czechs,
Slovaks, Italians and Germans who are the mainstay of her business. 'It's
desperate," she said. 'We lost Easter, May and now most of June. We hope people
will make last minute bookings in July we hope the war will be over by then.

Millions of tourists a year, including 500,000 from Britain, used to visit the
Dalmatian coast and the Croatian capital, Zagreb, before war broke out in the
former Yugoslavia in the early 1990s. Croatia had just started to attract back
tourists when the Nato attacks began.

Ms Manzoni's company used to handle 16,000 clients a year before war broke out.
In the past few years it had managed to rekindle business to reach about 60% of
pre-war levels, but business has fallen by two thirds since the Nato bombings
began. Slovenia

As another former Yugoslav republic, Slovenia is tarred with the same brush as
Croatia, although it does not share a border with Serbia. Tourist companies say
that after a good start to the year bookings have dried up.

Martej Knaus, director of Palma Travel in Celje, central Slovenia, who deals
with 30,000 tourists a year, says different nationalities have reacted in
different ways. 'The Italians are very scared to come, whereas the Germans and
the Austrians know the situation and it doesn't put them off. The British market
is half and half.'


LOAD-DATE: May 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              303 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              May 16, 1999, Sunday

'MI5 PLOTTED MIAMI SHOWBAND MASSACRE'

BYLINE: Colin Wills

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 597 words


A DRAMATIC claim that British Intelligence was behind the infamous Miami
Showband massacre in Northern Ireland in the Seventies are made today by the
partner of Britain's most famous undercover soldier.

MPs are to raise questions in the House of Commons over the claims made in
today's Sunday Mirror by Oonagh Flynn, who had a four-year relationship with
Captain Robert Nairac, the SAS soldier murdered by the IRA in 1977.

Flynn says that Capt Nairac told her that he was responsible for killing at
least one leading terrorist, and was involved in planning the attack on the
Miami Showband - which ranks as one of the worst atrocities in the 30-year
history of the Troubles - when three members of the band were murdered by a
10-man hit squad.

And last night Labour MP Ken Livingstone, who raised concerns about Nairac's
role in his maiden speech to the Commons in 1987, said: "What you have uncovered
confirms the scale of what was going on sanctioned by MI5 in Northern Ireland.
It was effectively state-backed murder."

Capt Nairac, who complained frequently about what he was being called on to do,
believed he was a marked man himself, and in danger of being betrayed and set up
by his own side.

Now MP Kevin McNamara will raise questions about the mysterious death of the
29-year-old Guards officer who worked closely with the SAS.

Although four men were jailed for his killing, Capt Nairac's body has never been
found, and all records of his unit - 14 Intelligence - have been destroyed. Mr
McNamara, Labour MP for Hull North, said last night: "After your revelations I
intend to table a question on Monday about the disappearance of Captain Nairac.
There are strange and unexplained circumstances surrounding his death. The mid
-Seventies were the time of a very dirty war."

The viciousness of the attack on the Miami Showband shocked even a people fast
becoming immune to violence. The band's minibus was stopped on its way back to
Dublin on July 31, 1975.

The band, who had been performing in Banbridge, Co Down, were ordered out at the
roadside by men from the Protestant terror group the UVF dressed in army
uniforms.

Two of the "soldiers" climbed aboard the minibus to plant a bomb which was
intended to explode later. The reason for this was to make people believe the
band were transporting explosives for the IRA. But the bomb went off
prematurely, killing two of the UVF men. The band were then lined up at the side
of the road and sprayed with bullets. Singer Francis O'Toole 20, and musicians
Brian McCoy, 27, and Tony Garraghty, 28, were shot dead.

The UVF gang - including James Somerville, one of the ringleaders - were caught
and jailed. But Flynn, who had a child by Capt Nairac shortly before he was
murdered, says that according to him the secret services were in on the plot in
the planning stage.

"Bob told me he helped plan the operation," said Flynn, 48, now living in
isolation in a tiny Cornish fishing village. "It was one of several such attacks
he was involved in."

She also alleges that Capt Nairac told her he had "popped" (murdered) IRA
commander John Francis Green in January of the same year and had been involved
in attacks on other leading terrorists.

Among other allegations made in the Sunday Mirror today, Flynn tells how Nairac
feared his own secret service would set him up to be killed. "He complained
endlessly and was getting a reputation for being difficult," she says.

"My feeling is that someone somewhere thought he was too much trouble and that
he was better off dead."

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CARNAGE: Nairac said the British secret service helped; plan the
shocking attack on the Miami Showband in 1975

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              304 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 18, 1999, Tuesday

CITY MAN TELLS YEMEN TRIAL OF CONFESSION

BYLINE: Alistair Keely

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 358 words


One of the five Birmingham men on trial in Yemen for alleged terrorist offences
has told the judge he made and signed a confession linking him with Islamic
militants.

Aden Preliminary Court heard a translation of the confession of Malik Nassar
Harhra, from Small Heath, Birmingham.

In it Harhra (26), stated that he had come to Yemen for instruction in the use
of firearms by another of the Birmingham defendants, Shahid Butt, who had been
trained in Afghanistan.

When asked by Judge Jamal Mohammed Omar if the confession and signature were
his, Harhra said "yes", although he later denied the claims in the statement
were true.

Mr Rashad Yaqoob, the lawyer for the five men in Britain, said the confession
was obtained through torture.

Harhra, Butt (33), also from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed (21), from Yardley,
Birmingham, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein (25), from
Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), deny associating with armed groups,
plotting murder and destruction, and illegal possession of weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have all denied plotting terrorist atrocities in the
Yemen.

They were charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen, and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), who
admitted one charge of forming an armed group but denied charges of possessing
weapons.

According to reports Mustafa Kamel, did not attend yesterday's court hearing
because he was sick.

Kamel is the son of London-based Sheikh Abu Hamza, a Muslim fundamentalist
leader. Yemen is seeking Hamza's extradition from Britain.

Yesterday, Hamza was rebailed to Charing Cross police station in London on July
26. He was arrested in March under the Prevention of Terrorism Act along with
two other men.

Meanwhile, lawyers have filed appeals against death sentences passed on three
Islamic militants for kidnapping and killing Western tourists in Yemen in
December last year.

The appeals on behalf of the three defendants and a fourth man, who was
sentenced to 20 years in prison, were filed with the Abyan Appeals Court on
Saturday.

LOAD-DATE: May 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              305 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                              May 21, 1999, Friday

JAIL FOR BOMB PLOT STUDENTS

SECTION: Pg. 19

LENGTH: 330 words


THREE "arrogant and callous" university students were jailed at the Old Bailey
this afternoon for taking part in an Irish republican terror plot to firebomb
targets in mainland Britain - intending to scupper the Good Friday agreement.

Mr Justice Klevan told the trio that they had wanted no part in the peace
initiative in Northern Ireland - but had wanted to bomb their way to a solution
which satisfied them.

"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking," he said.

Ringleader Anthony Hyland (26) was jailed for 25 years. Darren Mulholland (20)
and Liam Grogan, (22) were both sentenced to 22 years.

They had denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year.

The three showed no emotion as they were convicted by the jury after nearly 13
hours of deliberations. When sentenced Hyland said: "That's no problem."

The students planned to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to hit targets in the UK.

As members of an extreme IRA breakaway group,they were violently opposed to the
Northern Ireland peace plan.

But unknown to them, they were the subjects of a "large joint operation by
officers from the security services and the police", said Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting.

On July 10 last year, police swooped and arrested the men.

They planned to wreak havoc by planting six incendiary devices in London shops.

After their arrest, police also discovered two pounds of Semtex high explosive
capable of causing death or extensive damage to property.

Their trial is the last Irish terrorist case in the current English legal
process.

Hyland and Mulholland were not legally represented.

Before the jury were sworn, Mulholland said he did not recognise the
jurisdiction of the court. Hyland had been represented earlier, but dispensed
with counsel before the trial.

Neither gave evidence in their defence.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              306 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              May 21, 1999, Friday

DJ GUILTY OF RAPING THREE WOMEN

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 490 words


A DISC jockey convicted yesterday of being one of Britain's most prolific
rapists is being investigated for a further series of sex assaults, some of
which involved drugging his victims.

Richard Baker, 34, of Bodmin, Cornwall, faces a life sentence after being found
guilty at the Old Bailey of three rapes, one attempted rape, two indecent
assaults, one attempted indecent assault, and causing an affray. Baker sexually
assaulted 12 women in the south of England during a seven month period last year
and had previously been convicted for raping a 19-year-old in 1986.

Under new laws, a second serious sexual offence carries an automatic life term,
although the judge has asked for psychiatric reports before Baker is sentenced.

Detectives yesterday appealed for further victims to come forward as details
emerged of at least three other rape allegations made against Baker while he
worked as a disc jockey in Spain.

Three young Swedish women claim they were raped last year by Baker in the
Spanish resort of Torremolinos after being sedated, almost certainly with the
so-called "date rape drug", Rohypnol. The tranquilliser is odourless and
colourless and leaves the victim with few inhibitions and little memory of their
experiences.

Baker told Spanish police the women had consented to having sex. He was released
due to lack of evidence.

Described in court as a "control freak", he showed no remorse towards the 12
women he terrorised. The court heard that he picked on lone women who were out
late at night, grabbing them around the throat from behind and putting them in a
state of terror by threatening to rape or kill them.

The attacks took place between May and December last year in Southend, Brighton,
and the London districts of St John's Wood, Whitechapel and Hampstead. The
victims were aged from 15 to 35.

His youngest victim was raped in August in a car park in Southend. A month later
he attempted to assault a 16-year-old in the same town. A few hours later he
indecently assaulted a 21-year-old and then drove to North London and raped a
26-year-old croupier.

He was caught at Heathrow airport attempting to fly to Spain: his brother had
tipped off the police after recognising Baker from a description on a trailer
for the BBC-TV Crimewatch programme.

During his trial Baker admitted sexually assaulting the women but denied raping
them. In court yesterday seven of Baker's victims sighed and smiled as the jury
returned their unanimous verdicts.

Commander Paddy Tom-kins, the Metropolitan police officer in charge of the
inquiry, said that he believed Baker was "one of the most prolific sex offenders
Britain has seen".

He urged anyone who thinks she may have been attacked by Baker to telephone a
special helpline on 0800 389 2873. He said that a number of women had already
been in contact.

Baker was remanded to Belmarsh prison. He will be sentenced next month.

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              307 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 21, 1999

Aid for Serbia must depend on reforms

SECTION: Pg.11

LENGTH: 946 words


WITH the war still raging in the Balkans, there is serious talk of a "Balkans
Marshall Plan" to finance the reconstruction of the area afterwards. Some of the
estimates of the level of finance that will be needed are truly enormous, with
sums up to GBP 35 billion being mentioned.

Obviously, a great proportion of this will be needed to pay for the
reconstruction of Kosovo and for the rehousing of the over one million refugees.
Significant proportions will be needed to reconstruct the economies of the
surrounding countries who have also suffered. But it is likely that in the plans
of the various agencies there are significant sums for the reconstruction of
Serbia.

There is only one place that ultimately the resources necessary to fund such a
plan will come from. That is the pockets of taxpayers all across the world,
especially in the United States and Great Britain. We will be asked to forego
new schools and hospitals in this country to finance the building of such in
Serbia.

I am sure that many in this country will have watched with horror the actions of
the predominately Serb Yugoslavian police and army as they burn and destroy
communities. Many will have heard with disbelief reports of the killings and
rapings. There will be few who will be happy to pay perhaps significant sums to
almost finance the Serbs war against their neighbours. I am sure that the
majority of the population in this country will not be happy about this.

Yet it is probably right that, in the long term, Serbia is rebuilt and can
eventually take its place amongst the ranks of civilised nations. But in the
short term we must put conditions on their receiving any aid. Such conditions
must include the total changing of the present government and the handing over
of every person who is charged by the international community with war crimes.
But there is another condition that must be carried out before any aid at all is
given to Serbia. That is that every one of the missing people in Kosovo must be
identified and the location of their graves and how and by whom they came to
die.

After the First World War, Germany had severe limits on the level of its armed
forces. As the Serbs have proved time and again that they believe that arms can
only be used to attack and terrorise their neighbours, they must be even more
severely limited for all their armed forces.

Chris Tankard

Newquay

Tackle Europe first

IT is with some regret that I must once again correct Kate Ironside. In her
column (May 17) she described the UK Independence Party as a "single issue
party". If she had done her homework she would know that the UKIP contested the
last General Election on a full manifesto. It is not a single issue party. Her
mistake repeats the attempts of other parties to marginalise us.

Since Britain's membership of the EU is the basis from which all other issues
derive, it is clearly pointless to campaign on domestic matters until this
question is decided.

If the electorate wishes to be absorbed into the single European state, it must
accept that all decisions will be taken in Brussels, on votes of more than 8-1,
so it would be futile to produce a manifesto that could have no bearing on
reality.

We note Mr Hague's promises made in Hungary. They have the same ring about them
as Mr Heath's promise of a Common Market before he signed the Treaty of Rome; of
Mrs Thatcher's Bruges speech before she signed the Single European Act; and of
Mr Major's promise of "no surrender of sovereignty" before he signed the
Maastricht Treaty. If Mr Hague and his party really want an independent Britain,
let him commit them to the repeal of the Treaty of Rome. It could be done in a
matter of days.

Nina Cooper

UK Independence Party Press Officer

Cornwall & Devon

Bideford

Eclipse is cancelled

I WOULD like to apologise to all those people who were looking forward to seeing
the eclipse this year, but unfortunately due to the lack of support from some of
the local residents and councils, the eclipse will be cancelled. So we will all
have to wait another 70 years.

Many of the residents within Cornwall are usually complaining that Cornwall is
not involved or given the chance to host very important events, yet they are not
prepared to compromise in any way. An opportunity such as this, which is both
memorable, pleasurable as well as profitable should not be seen as unique to
Cornwall but open to all those who wish to experience this chance of a lifetime
event. Why not cancel the year 2000 as well as some people within Cornwall have
no sense of fun and adventure?

Nichola Brice, aged 18,

St Austell

Apathy of politicians

I admit I did not vote in the local elections. I have had a vote for nearly 30
years and always previously voted in all the elections for which I was eligible.

It was not my "apathy" which kept me away, but the indifference of the
candidates. I have lived in Crediton for ten months and do not know who was
standing for election. As no-one came to canvass me, delivered any leaflets to
let me know what were their thoughts, hopes and aspirations for Crediton and
Devon, how could I vote?

In council elections I have always voted for the person, not the party, so I was
not going to chance voting for a candidate who unknowingly had views so
different from my own.

If a candidate has not got the time to visit or organise the printing of a
leaflet, what time has that person got to serve the residents of Crediton?

In the past I have been a parish councillor and worked flat out during the weeks
leading up to a General Election. If you want a positive result you have to work
long hard hours.

Maureen Shovell

Crediton

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              308 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 22, 1999, Saturday

FANATICS;
 STUDENT BOMBERS WHO TRIED TO WRECK ULSTER'S PEACE DEAL

BYLINE: Ric Clark

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 214 words


THESE are the three fanatics who tried to wreck Northern Ireland's peace process
by plotting a murderous bombing campaign in Britain.

They planned to wreak havoc in the heart of London by planting six incendiary
devices smuggled in from the Republic.

But unknown to them every move they made in Britain was meticulously recorded by
police from the Anti-Terrorist Squad and MI5 agents acting on information from
security forces in the Republic.

Yesterday, their terror plot collapsed in the Old Bailey, but before imposing
lengthy jail sentences on all three, the judge, Mr Justice Klevan, told them:
"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking."

Ringleader Anthony Hyland, 26, was jailed for 25 years while Darren Mulholland,
20, a student from Dundalk, and Liam Grogan, 22, from Naas, were each jailed for
22 years.

Last night as the three Real IRA fanatics were locked up Lagan Valley MP Jeffrey
Donaldson demanded that they must serve their full sentences.

"I welcome they have been put where they belong and will not qualify for the
early release scheme and hope there will be no effort made to include them in
the scheme," he said.

"People guilty of terrorist crimes should serve full sentences."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANTHONY HYLAND; LIAM GROGAN; DARREN MULHOLLAND

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              309 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 22, 1999, Saturday

FANATICAL PLOTTED TO STUDENTS WHO WRECK PEACE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 734 words


THREE "arrogant and callous" university students were jailed at the Old Bailey
yesterday for taking part in an Irish republican terror plot to firebomb targets
in mainland Britain - intending to scupper the Good Friday Agreement.

Mr Justice Klevan told the trio they had wanted no part in the peace initiative
in Northern Ireland - but had wanted to bomb their way to a solution which
satisfied them.

"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking," he said.

Ringleader Anthony Hyland, 26, of no given address, was jailed for 25 years.
Darren Mulholland, 20, a student from Dundalk, Co Louth, and Liam Grogan, 22,
from Naas, Co Kildare, were both sentenced to 22 years.

They had denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year.

The three showed no emotion as they were convicted by the jury after nearly 13
hours of deliberations. When sentenced, Hyland said: "That's no problem."

The students planned to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to hit targets in the UK.

As members of an extreme IRA breakaway group, they were violently opposed to the
Northern Ireland peace plan.

But unknown to them, they were the subjects of a "large joint operation by
officers from the security services and the police", said Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting.

On July 10 last year, police swooped and arrested the men.

Mr Sweeney said they "were party, with others, to an Irish republican terrorist
conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom".

They planned to wreak havoc by planting six incendiary devices - smuggled in
from Ireland - in London shops .

After their arrest, police also discovered two pounds of Semtex high explosive
capable of causing death or extensive damage to property.

While in London, Hyland visited the reference section of a public library and
looked up a House of Commons reference book - leaving his fingerprints in the
section of MPs whose names started with S.

One served a constituency in Scotland and one in Northern Ireland.

Their trial is the last Irish terrorist case in the current English legal
process.

Hyland and Mulholland were not legally represented. Before the jury was sworn,
Mulholland said he did not recognise the jurisdiction of the court. Hyland had
been represented earlier, but dispensed with counsel before the trial.

Neither gave evidence in their defence.

Mr Justice Klevan said that although the trio may not have had the intention of
taking life, "there was a substantial risk of death and injury".

"Thankfully, in consequence of the vigilance of the police, you were caught
before your bombs could wreak havoc.

"If the incendiary devices had been placed in shops and ignited, the damage
would have been enormous. Shoppers, staff, firemen and the public generally
would have been at risk.

"If the Semtex bomb had been placed and exploded, the result would have been
horrifying.

"You know these attacks were on the community and were politically motivated.
And you also know any attempt to exert political pressure in this was must be
met with severe sentences.

"You wanted no part in any peace initiative in Northern Ireland. You wanted to
carry on and bomb your way to a solution which would satisfy yourselves."

Hyland was leader of the terrorist cell in London. When arrested, he had a
rucksack containing the six incendiary bombs. They were intended for use on soft
furnishing or carpet stores in London.

He brought them over earlier from Ireland in boxes wrapped in clear plastic
film. They were also covered in talcum powder to overcome sniffer dogs, said Mr
Sweeney.

Hyland had stayed at a north London flat where the Semtex high explosive bomb
was later found.

Although he declined to answer questions during 12 interviews, when charged, he
said: "I would like to state emphatically there was never any intention to
endanger life."

This was "a clear, implicit admission he had intended to cause serious injury to
property", said Mr Sweeney.

Hyland was asked at the end of each interview to sign a seal on a tape recording
which had been made of it. On one day he signed with a Gaelic word which meant
freedom, liberty or independence.

On another he signed with the Gaelic for "Our day will
come".VideograbVideograbVideograb

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DARREN MULHOLLAND: 22 years; LIAM GROGAN: 22 years; ANTHONY HYLAND: 26
years;; BOMB PACK: six lethal incediaries, above, 2lbs of Semtex, below, and a
simple rucksack

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              310 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             May 22, 1999, Saturday

STUDENTS JAILED FOR BOMB PLOT TO WRECK PEACE PLAN

BYLINE: Pat Clarke Special Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 404 words


Three "arrogant and callous" university students were jailed at the Old Bailey
yesterday for their part in an Irish republican terror plot to firebomb targets
in mainland Britain - intending to scupper the Good Friday agreement.

Mr Justice Klevan told the trio they had wanted no part in the peace initiative
in Northern Ireland - but had wanted to bomb their way to a solution which
satisfied them.

"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking," he said.

Ringleader Anthony Hyland (26), of no given address, was jailed for 25 years.
Darren Mulholland (20), a student from Dundalk, Co Louth, and Liam Grogan (22),
of Naas, Co Kildare, were each sentenced to 22 years.

They had denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year. The three showed no emotion as they were
convicted by the jury after nearly 13 hours of deliberations. When sentenced
Hyland said: "That's no problem."

The students planned to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to hit targets in the UK. As members of an extreme IRA breakaway group
they were violently opposed to the Northern Ireland peace plan.

But unknown to them, they were the subjects of a "large joint operation by
officers from the security services and the police", said Mr Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting.

On July 10 last year, police swooped and arrested the men. Mr Sweeney said they
"were party, with others, to an Irish republican terrorist conspiracy to cause
explosions in the United Kingdom". They planned to wreak havoc by planting six
incendiary devices in London shops - smuggled in from Ireland.

After their arrest police also discovered 2lb of Semtex high explosive capable
of causing death or extensive damage to property.

While in London, Hyland visited the reference section of a public library and
looked up a House of Commons reference book - leaving his fingerprints in the
section of MPs whose names started with S. One served a constituency in Scotland
and one in Northern Ireland.

Their trial is the last Irish terrorist case in the current English legal
process.

Hyland and Mulholland were not legally represented. Before the jury were sworn
in, Mulholland said he did not recognise the jurisdiction of the court. Hyland
had been represented earlier, but dispensed with counsel before the trial.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Firebomb: Liam Grogan. Callous: Anthony Hyland. Terrorist: Darren
Mullholland.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              311 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        May 22, 1999, Saturday Edition 1

Terror gang jailed for London bombing plot - Group targeted shoppers

BYLINE: By Pat Clarke

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 435 words


   Three "arrogant and callous" members of a Republican terror group were jailed
at the Old Bailey yesterday for taking part in plot to firebomb targets in
mainland Britain - intending to scupper the Good Friday agreement.

Mr Justice Klevan told the trio they had wanted no part in the peace initiative
in Northern Ireland but had wanted to bomb their way to a solution which
satisfied them.

"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking," he said.

Ringleader Anthony Hyland, 26, of no given address was jailed for 25 years.
Darren Mulholland, 20, a student from Dundalk, County Louth, and Liam Grogan,
22, from Naas, Co Kildare were both sentenced to 22 years.

They had denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year.

The three showed no emotion as they were convicted by the jury after nearly 13
hours of deliberations. When sentenced Hyland said: "That's no problem."

The students planned to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to hit targets in the UK.

As members of an extreme IRA breakaway group they were violently opposed to the
Northern Ireland peace plan.

But unknown to them, they were the subjects of a "large joint operation by
officers from the security services and the police", said Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting.

On July 10 last year, police swooped and arrested the men.

Mr Sweeney said they "were party, with others, to an Irish Republican terrorist
conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom."

They planned to wreak havoc by planting six incendiary devices - smuggled from
Ireland - in London shops

After their arrest police also discovered two pounds of Semtex high explosive
capable of causing death or extensive damage to property.

While in London, Hyland visited the reference section of a public library and
looked up a House of Commons reference book, leaving his fingerprints in the
section of MPs whose names started with S.

One served a constituency in Scotland and one in Northern Ireland.

Their trial is the last Irish terrorist case in the current English legal
process.

Hyland and Mulholland were not legally represented.

Before the jury were sworn, Mulholland said he did not recognise the
jurisdiction of the court.

Hyland had been represented earlier, but dispensed with counsel before the
trial.

Neither gave evidence in their defence.

Mr Justice Klevan said that although the trio may not have had the intention of
taking life, "there was a substantial risk of death and injury."

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              312 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  May 22, 1999

Students' firebomb plot ends in prison

SECTION: Pg.26

LENGTH: 451 words


THREE "arrogant and callous" university students were jailed at the Old Bailey
yesterday for taking part in an Irish republican terror plot to firebomb targets
in mainland Britain - intending to scupper the Good Friday agreement.

Mr Justice Klevan told the trio they had wanted no part in the peace initiative
in Northern Ireland - but had wanted to bomb their way to a solution which
satisfied them.

"Your arrogance and callousness to those who would have suffered at your hands
is breathtaking," he said.

Ringleader Anthony Hyland, 26, of no given address was jailed for 25 years.
Darren Mulholland, 20, a student from Dundalk, County Louth, and Liam Grogan,
22, from Naas, Co Kildare were both sentenced to 22 years.

They had denied that with others unknown they conspired to cause explosions
between June 1 and July 11 last year.

The three showed no emotion as they were convicted by the jury after nearly 13
hours of deliberations. When sentenced Hyland said: "That's no problem."

The students planned to use a Semtex high explosive bomb and six incendiary
devices to hit targets in the UK.

As members of an extreme IRA breakaway group they were violently opposed to the
Northern Ireland peace plan.

But unknown to them, they were the subjects of a "large joint operation by
officers from the security services and the police", said Nigel Sweeney,
prosecuting.

On July 10 last year, police swooped and arrested the men.

Mr Sweeney said they "were party, with others, to an Irish republican terrorist
conspiracy to cause explosions in the United Kingdom".

They planned to wreak havoc by planting six incendiary devices in London shops -
smuggled in from Ireland.

After their arrest police also discovered two pounds of Semtex high explosive
capable of causing death or extensive damage to property.

While in London, Hyland visited the reference section of a public library and
looked up a House of Commons reference book - leaving his fingerprints in the
section of MPs whose names started with S. One served a constituency in Scotland
and one in Northern Ireland.

Their trial is the last Irish terrorist case in the current English legal
process.

Hyland and Mulholland were not legally represented. Before the jury were sworn,
Mulholland said he did not recognise the jurisdiction of the court. Hyland had
been represented earlier, but dispensed with counsel before the trial. Neither
gave evidence in their defence.

Mr Justice Klevan said that although the trio may not have had the intention of
taking life, "there was a substantial risk of death and injury.

"Thankfully, in consequence of the vigilance of the police, you were caught
before your bombs could wreak havoc."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              313 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                              May 24, 1999, Monday

TROOPS ON STANDBY FOR INFLUX OF ORANGEMEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 466 words


MORE Orangemen than ever from outside the Province are believed to be planning
to join their brethren at Drumcree, placing even further pressure on the
security forces.

The news comes as strong signals emerged that up to 2,000 more troops could
arrive in Northern Ireland within weeks if there is no resolution of the parade
crisis.

Despite the decision by several county lodges not to join the protestors at
Drumcree on the Twelfth, security chiefs have drawn up contingency plans to
combat another major outbreak of violence.

After several nights of clashes in Portadown, the RUC and the Army see no sign
of a softening of attitudes among either local Orangemen or nationalist
residents of the Garvaghy Road.

The Orangemen are determined to march down the road on July 4 after being barred
from the route by the Parades Commission last year.

Whatever happens regarding the traditional Somme service parade, the Co Armagh
lodge plans to hold its Twelfth celebrations at Drumcree and that event is
certain to attract thousands of supporters, many of whom will make the journey
from Scotland and England where there are now claimed to be more than 80,000
members.

On the other side of the line, 2,000 of the 17,000 soldiers under the command of
the Army GOC in Ulster are currently back in their bases in England because of
the reduced terrorist threat.

They will be returned - and are likely to be added to - if there is no
resolution of the parades issue.

Last year the Army returned English-based soldiers to Northern Ireland ahead of
the Drumcree parade and sent in an extra three battalions - some 1,500 men - to
boost numbers.

A similar response to back up the RUC, who will be in the front line, is likely
this year, according to senior security sources.

In the longer term, there is little prospect of an early permanent reduction in
the level of troops serving in Northern Ireland, certainly not before the
publication of the report into the future of policing in the province.

Former Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten is due to present the report to the
Government in the autumn.

According to security sources, there is no plan to take troops out of Northern
Ireland to help make up the British contingent if Nato sends ground forces into
Kosovo.

Even if the "normal society" which the Government is seeking in Ulster is
achieved, Sinn Fein's demand for a total withdrawal of British troops is seen as
a non-starter.

Before the violence broke out in 1969 the Army maintained a garrison strength in
Ulster, as it does on the British mainland.

In the 1960s the strength was some 2,000 soldiers, but with the return of the
Army to Britain from bases around the world a "peacetime" Northern Ireland
garrison is expected to be above 6,000.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              314 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  May 24, 1999

N-plant police to get cannon

BYLINE: ??

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 154 words


Britain's nuclear police force will be armed with everything from water cannons
to 30mm naval guns firing 900 rounds a minute, in case of attack from protesters
or terrorists when guarding ships transporting plutonium fuel from Cumbria to
Japan this summer.

The US Department of State, seeking to reassure senators that American weapons
grade plutonium will be safe when it is shipped to Japan from Sellafield, has
detailed an astonishing range of weaponry that will be deployed by officers of
the UK atomic energy authority constabulary,

Sellafield has a demonstration plant which is turning military plutonium into
civil reactor fuel. Under US congress rules, the fuel has to have a naval escort
at sea, but the Clinton adminstration has decided the British police are so well
armed there is no need. The police will shortly put to sea in two nuclear
transport ships to test their equipment. Paul Brown


LOAD-DATE: May 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              315 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 25, 1999, Tuesday

MIRROR INVESTIGATION: SNAPPED AT THE BNP BASH;
 HE MET WITH RIGHT-WING ACTIVISTS TO CELEBRATE PARTY'S 15TH ANNIVERSARY

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 671 words


THESE are the dramatic pictures that prove nail bomb suspect David Copeland's
links with Britain's evil far Right.

They show the 22-year-old engineer who is accused of three murders standing next
to bloodied John Tyndall, leader of the fascist British National Party, after a
brawl with anti-Nazis.

The Mirror has discovered that Copeland was a member of the East London branch
of the party in 1997.

Yet up to now senior Scotland Yard detectives have insisted he was a "lone wolf"
with no known connections to the far Right. The Mirror is making its findings
available to police.

Our exclusive pictures show Copeland outside a meeting of the BNP in The Swan
pub, in Stratford High Street, East London, on September 15, 1997. Tyndall and
his colleagues had hired an upstairs function room at the pub - but kept their
neo-Nazi racist politics secret from the landlord.

The event was to celebrate the 15th anniversary of the founding of the party.

After the meeting the BNP were confronted on the street by a rival gang,
believed to be from the Anti-Nazi League.

Missiles, including broken bottles, were hurled at the BNP members. Tyndall was
hit several times.

Despite blood pouring from his head the 64-year-old fascist, who has been jailed
for possessing offensive weapons and incitement to racial hatred, refused
hospital treatment.

Dozens of police officers descended on the scene. Two people were arrested for
affray and one on suspicion of GBH. They were later released without charge and
no further action was taken.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said of the brawl: "We can confirm there was an
altercation between two groups outside The Swan pub in Stratford. Two of the
injured were taken to hospital but denied treatment."

Copeland is believed to have joined the East London branch of the BNP as it was
convenient to his work on the Jubilee underground line.

As an active member, he and his fellow racists would meet regularly in pubs and
clubs to discuss how to promote their far Right beliefs.

One of the men he associated with was Tony Lecomber, 36, a former branch leader
and key figure in the BNP's Euro election campaign.

There is no suggestion that either Tyndall or Lecomber had any involvement in
the three bombings - at Brixton, Brick Lane and a gay pub in Soho - over which
Copeland is charged.

Home Secretary Jack Straw came under intense pressure to outlaw extremist groups
after the bombings.

But last Friday the BNP was granted a prime time party political broadcast,
having entered the required number of candidates for the upcoming Euro elections
to qualify for the free slot.

The BNP is desperately trying to get a foothold in mainstream politics and has
candidates standing in every constituency for the June poll.

Last week, a Mirror investigation revealed that at least eight BNP candidates
had used bogus home addresses on nomination papers.

Because the false details were not spotted when candidates were selected a week
earlier, no action can be taken until after the elections.

Commons Leader Margaret Beckett has launched an inquiry into the allegations of
fraud. And more than 50 MPs have signed a motion condemning the abuse.

Mainly black Brixton market was nail bombed on April 17. Almost 40 people
werehurt. Later, a video grab of a suspect was issued. Brick Lane - the
heartland of London's Bangladeshi community - was bombed a week later. Nine
Asians were injured. Six days later three people died and 65 were injured when a
third bomb ripped through the Admiral Duncan gay pub in London's Soho. Yesterday
Soho bomb victim Julian Dykes, 25, of Colchester, Essex, was trying to come to
terms with the loss of his pregnant wife and two pals. Julian was told after
regaining consciousness that wife Andrea, 27, best man John Light, 32, and pal
Nicholas Moore, 31, died in the blast. Copeland, of Cove, Hampshire, is accused
of three murders and causing three explosions. He is due to appear in court
again next month.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REVEALED: Copeland, his face blanked out, leaves the meeting - bloodied
BNP leader Tyndall is on right; SNAPPED: Copeland, right, walking away a few
minutes after the dust-up with anti-Nazi protesters; ON FILM: Video grab of the
bomb suspect; AFTER THE BRAWL: Copeland, in the background left, and Tyndall
behind police after the protest in which the BNP leader was cut in the face
Picture:; Searchlight

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              316 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  May 26, 1999

Homes raided in race hate mail hunt

BYLINE: Peter Rose

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 329 words


DETECTIVES investigating a surge of race hate letters to public figures
yesterday raided the homes of suspected Rightwing extremists.

The targets included the homes of a former National Front member in Ipswich and
a British National Party official and leading propagandist in London, as well as
addresses in the home counties.

Their names were discovered during a search carried out as part of the
investigation of nail bomb attacks in London. The raids were the first operation
by a Scotland Yard Task Force set up after the bombings in Brixton, Brick Lane
and Soho.

During the bombing campaign there was a sharp increase in hate mail to black and
Asian politicians and ethnic minority leaders. Tony Blair's close friend Lord
Alli, the managing editor of television company Planet 24, and Baroness Uddin,
an Asian Labour peer, were among those who received threats.

Copies of a statement by the 'Command Council of the White Wolves' were also
delivered.

Detectives are secretly investigating suspected links between Rightwing racists
in Britain and white supremacists in the U.S. and Europe.

They fear a network has been established which could be behind an arms cache
found near London after police were shot at. The weapons included a Kalashnikov
assault rifle and police found maps pointing to other arms caches in Switzerland
and the U.S.

They believe 'survivalists' in those countries have been in contact with people
in Britain, possibly through the internet.

Detectives fear a rise in radical militia groups like those which have
mushroomed in the U.S.

They have been responsible for a string of attacks such as the pipe bomb blast
in Atlanta's Centennial Park during the 1996 Olympics.

Some groups predict an impending racial Armageddon for which military
preparations are essential.

David Copeland from Cove in Hampshire has been charged with murder in connection
with the London nail bombings and is awaiting trial.


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              317 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            May 26, 1999, Wednesday

COPS RAID NAZI DENS

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards And Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 185 words


POLICE raided the homes of leading neo-Nazis early yesterday as Scotland Yard
asked for a Mirror dossier linking the London nail bomb suspect to the racist
British National Party.

Evidence revealed by The Mirror yesterday will be handed to police chiefs to
help the investigation into the background of bomb suspect David Copeland.

Copies of our exclusive pictures showing Copeland standing next to bloodied BNP
leader John Tyndall outside a 1997 party meeting will also be handed to
detectives.

Police swooped on 11 homes in a series of raids across Britain.

They seized race-hate and neo-Nazi literature and videos from addresses in
London, Essex, Hampshire, Suffolk, Surrey and Berkshire.

Most of the suspects are believed to be members of the Hitler-worshipping
National Socialist Movement.

At least one of those arrested is thought to be a member of the so-called "White
Wolves" terrorist gang.

Others are said to be connected to the violent fascist Combat 18 organisation.

Last month's three nail bomb attacks in London left three people dead and 100
others injured.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Yesterday's Mirror

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              318 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                  June 3, 1999

No excuse for taking moral high ground;Nato must make diplomacy work;The US and
Britain have no reason to be sensitive about negotiating with terrorists, argues
Geopolitics Editor Ian Bruce

BYLINE: Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 936 words


NATO will be left facing some very hard choices if diplomacy hits the buffers in
Belgrade this week. None of the options is good. The first fatal casualty will
be the alliance's ever-more-fragile unity of purpose, and perhaps its very
survival.

Lacking an exit strategy from a war started by politicians against sound
military advice, Nato may finally be forced to put its manpower where its mouth
is, risking a ground war no-one wants and which could not be sustained through a
Balkan winter.

None of the million-plus ethnic Albanian refugees will be going home this year.
When force of arms eventually prevails, they will return to a land laid to waste
by war in which no harvest has been planted to feed them.

The sole military alternative is an ever-escalating aerial blitz aimed at
bringing Yugoslavia to its knees before winter clouds cancel even that avenue of
destructive persuasion. Europe might yet witness the sight of a nation literally
"bombed back to the Stone Age".

Yugoslav hospitals are already operating on generators. The lights have gone out
all over Serbia as Nato switched in petulance from graphite bombs which shorted
out the power station lines without causing permanent damage, to high explosive
bombs which did.

Water purification and sewage systems are next on the target list. The
disruption of the electricity grid has reduced the pumping of water to the point
where residents of the capital are trekking to the banks of the Danube to fill
buckets to flush toilets.

As it became increasingly obvious that the air campaign had not crippled the
Yugoslav forces - or even dented their numbers or capability to any worthwhile
degree - Nato's stated objective of striking purely military targets has shifted
to terror bombing adapted to the 1990s lifestyle.

This avoids wholesale destruction of life and property but undermines civilian
morale just as surely, by denying them access to television and computers,
light, heat, and refrigeration.

More than 40,00 people are unemployed because their factories have been razed.
Serbia's war economy does not stretch to hand-outs. Summer is coming and fresh
food is in short supply. Disease is the next likely visitor, courtesy of an
alliance air tasking order.

Nato now has 1200 warplanes in the region - three times the number of aircraft
it had available at the beginning of the conflict on March 24. Its striking
power is awesome but beginning to follow the law of diminishing returns.

Every building destroyed will have to be rebuilt. Every bomb expended will have
to be replaced for the next confrontation with Iraq or Libya or some other
country ruled by a dangerous tinpot dictator. The taxpayers of Europe and
America will have to pay for it all.

US General Wesley Clark, Supreme Allied Commander, has outlined three scenarios
for a ground attack to end the crisis. In the meantime, he plans
"round-the-clock, omni-directional, all-out bombing strikes" to weaken Yugoslav
national resolve.

His options for "forced entry" by land forces have been presented to the
Pentagon. The first is a risky smash-and-grab descent by 60,000 lightly-armed
heliborne infantry using air power as flying artillery. This would be immensely
vulnerable to Serb armour and artillery and might end in bloody disaster.

The second is a combination of light forces going in by mass helicopter assault,
backed by armoured and mechanised units attacking from two or more directions.
It would need 90,000 to 100,000 men and would again be a hostage to fortune
along the few roads capable of bearing heavy tanks and artillery.

The third is an all-out attack, involving a slow, steady build-up and 200,000
troops. Time may already have run out for this option. It would take two to
three months to put the logistical support in place and Nato has no such period
of grace. The Balkan snows begin to fly in late September.

Germany, with Europe's biggest army, has opted out of participation in a ground
offensive. Britain has promised 30,000 troops it cannot spare from the 80
commitments it already has worldwide, and an army of just 96,000 effectives.

While a force might be scraped together temporarily, it could not be sustained
in the field for long without stretching the resource elastic to breaking point.
And a campaign in the Balkan mountains would not be a quick affair.

America has reluctantly agreed to commit 7000 men to a peace implementation
force but Clinton is still hedging on a combat role which might impact on next
year's presidential elections.

Domestic votes are, in the end, worth more than displaced peasants from an
obscure, backward little province no-one had heard of before Milosevic put them
centre stage.

Diplomacy's final deadline is June 18, when the G8 industrial nations meet for a
summit marking the edge of international patience and perhaps the beginning of a
new phase of precipitate military action which could fracture Nato forever.

Diplomacy is the last, best hope. Even if it means striking a deal with
Milosevic. Britain and America have negotiated with dictators and former
terrorists before and have little reason to invoke the moral high ground now.
Kenya and Israel spring to mind in the UK's case, Chile and China in that of the
US.

Both turned a blind eye to Milosevic's ravages in Bosnia in the interests of
achieving a settlement which let everyone off the hook at the time. Dented
alliance credibility and the bruised egos of politicians who have never heard a
shot fired in anger are not worth the life of a single British soldier in
Kosovo.

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A drop of comfort: an ethnic Albanian girl drinks from a plastic bottle
at Cegrane refugee camp in Macedonia Picture: PETER SEVERIC/AP

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              319 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 6, 1999, Sunday

DON'T NAME ME, BEGS PC WHO KILLED IRA BOMBER

BYLINE: Mark Nicol

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 414 words


A POLICEMAN who gunned down an IRA terrorist in a London swoop is living in fear
of his life after lawyers demanded that he be named.

The officer, named only as "Kilo", is terrified that his identity could be
revealed when he gives evidence to a coroner's court about the shooting.

He told the Sunday Mirror: "Given half a chance, the IRA will kill me, my wife
and children. Despite acting professionally I seem to be serving a life sentence
for what I did. My wife is suicidal about this." Senior politicians and the
Police Federation agree that naming Officer Kilo when he gives evidence at West
London Coroner's Court about the shooting of Diarmuid O'Neill could cost him his
life.

Solicitors acting for O'Neill's family have already made a formal application to
the court to name Kilo. The move follows the decision to identify 17 Parachute
Regiment soldiers at a new inquiry into the Bloody Sunday shootings in
Londonderry.

Kilo shot O'Neill during a raid in Hammersmith by the Metropolitan Police's
armed SO19 unit.

Three of O'Neill's gang were arrested during the ambush in September 1996, and
later jailed for 62 years for conspiracy to cause explosions.

Police believed the gang were about to start Britain's biggest-ever bombing
campaign.

Kilo has already been told he has no automatic right to anonymity. The decision
rests with the coroner Dr John Burton.

A Police Federation spokesman said: "The IRA considers Officer Kilo a legitimate
target.

"If he is named, or seen at the inquest, terrorists could locate him. It is
totally unfair that he and his family have to endure this.

"Why should officers risk their lives if their anonymity is sacrificed?"

A Metropolitan Police spokeswoman said: "If the coroner decides naming Kilo is
in the public interest we must defer to him. It is his decision."

Kilo, who is married with three children, has been removed from firearms duties
with SO19 but is still serving in the Metropolitan Police.

He said: "I have been given no assurances that my identity will be kept secret.

"There must be screens shielding me from everyone in court and I will not tell
anyone, even the coroner, who I am."

Last night Shadow Home Secretary Sir Norman Fowler said Kilo's anonymity should
be preserved.

"It would be ludicrous at a time when convicted terrorists are being released
from prison to put a serving police officer in peril," he said. "He and his
family should be protected."

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SWOOP: The police raid on the gang's London bomb factory; SHOT:
Diarmuid; O'Neill

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              320 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  June 7, 1999

JANUARY: In Iceland, 7,000 are evacuated as the Helgafell volcano erupts after
lying dormant for thousands of years. In the UK, some supermarkets boycott goods
by Distillers after payouts to thalidomide children are delayed; the Open
University awards its first degrees. Former US President Lyndon B. Johnson, who
took over after John Kennedy's assassination, dies at 64.

SECTION: Pg.16

LENGTH: 890 words


FEBRUARY: In London, women are allowed on the Stock Exchange floor for the first
time. In Gloucester, the Badgeworth buttercup stops development of a car
valeting service next to Badgeworth nature reserve - the unique plant must be
protected from pollution. Israeli jets shoot down a Libyan passenger plane,
killing 74 - Israel claims the jet was told to land as it crossed a military
airfield, but this is denied. American tennis player Monica Seles is born in
Yugoslavia.

MARCH: Trials without jury are proposed for Northern Ireland by the British
government, due to the danger of intimidation by witnesses; a referendum in the
province votes to stay in the UK. Also in Britain, Liberal Party leader Jeremy
Thorpe marries the Countess of Harewood; Red Rum wins the Grand National in a
record time. In Cambodia, 20 die when assassins fail to kill President Lon Nol.
Theatre's "blithe spirit", Noel Coward, dies in Jamaica at 73.

APRIL: Documents released by the Vatican show that the Church was aware of Nazi
death camps in Poland. India sets up a campaign to save the tiger from
extinction. In Britain, Valued Added Tax is introduced. In the "Cod War", an
Icelandic gunboat opens fire on two British trawlers - next month the Royal Navy
is brought in to protect them and rioters will respond by stoning the British
Embassy. Prolific Spanish artist Pablo Picasso dies at 91 - his controversial
work changed the course of 20th-century art.

MAY: In the US, Marlon Brando, offered an Academy Award for The Godfather,
refuses it because of the film industry's exploitation of native Americans. In
Britain, Second Division Sunderland beat Leeds to take the FA Cup; broadcaster
Kenneth Allsop is found dead at his Bridport home - barbiturate intoxication is
the cause of death. In the US, the orbiting space station Skylab is launched -
three astronauts will rendezvous with it in space.

JUNE: A Soviet Tupelov-144 supersonic airliner explodes in mid-air at the Paris
air show, killing its six crew and nine others as fragments land on a nearby
town. In Ulster, a loyalist vigilante group, the Ulster Freedom Fighters, claims
responsibility for a series of sectarian murders; the IRA replies by murdering a
Unionist candidate and a civilian who supplies troops with sandwiches. Irish
President Eamon de Valera resigns at 90. West German Chancellor Willy Brandt
visits Israel. In Athens, Greece is proclaimed a republic.

JULY: A row brews up at Wimbledon over contracts, and many stars withdraw before
the competition. After 300 years of British rule, the Bahamas islands become
independent. In New York, Elizabeth Taylor says she has split from husband
Richard Burton. Monica Lewinsky, who will be implicated in the near-impeachment
of President Bill Clinton, is born in the US. Bruce Lee, Chinese-American film
star and martial arts expert, dies suddenly at 32. Also dying are British
novelist Nancy Mitford and US pin-up girl Betty Grable.

AUGUST: Fifty die when the huge entertainment complex Summerland in Douglas,
Isle of Man, is destroyed by fire. As bombs go off in the West Midlands and in
West End stores, the IRA denies responsibility. In Londonderry, an inquest
returns an open verdict on the 13 victims of Bloody Sunday. Kenneth and Keith
Littlejohn, brothers from Torquay, are sentenced in Dublin for bank robbery but
claim it was an anti-IRA operation set up by British Intelligence.

SEPTEMBER: Juan Peron is re-elected President of Argentina after 18 years in
exile. Marxist President Allende of Chile dies when a military coup overthrows
him, and General Pinochet takes over. On the eve of his 100th Grand Prix race,
champion racing driver Jackie Stewart says he's retiring. British poet W H
Auden, one of the great voices of 20th-century poetry, dies at 66. Also dying,
at 81 is J R R Tolkien - he became a best -selling author in his seventies with
Lord of the Rings.

OCTOBER: The London Broadcasting Company, the first legal competition for BBC
Radio, goes on air 24 hours a day; Capital Radio also starts this month. Also in
Britain, Denis Healey vows that Labour will tax the rich "until the pips
squeak". IRA terrorists hijack a helicopter and force the pilot to land at
Mountjoy Prison, Dublin, where three prisoners are snatched to freedom. Great
Spanish cellist Pablo Cassals, who played to Queen Victoria in 1899, dies at 96.

NOVEMBER: In Athens, the Greek armed forces seize power, overthrowing the
government of President George Papadopoulos. In Ethiopia, 100,000 are feared
dead as a result of famine. In Argentina, the Peronistas launch a campaign to
regain the Falklands from Britain. The UK's 13-month "Cod War" with Iceland ends
with a peace deal entailing a 50,000-ton cut in the British catch. Australia
grants Aborigines the vote. In Northern Ireland, the 200th British soldier is
killed.

DECEMBER: Political leaders from London, Dublin and Belfast agree to the setting
up of a Council of Ireland to deal with all-Ireland problems. Spain's Prime
Minister Luis Carrero Blanco is killed in Madrid by a bomb planted by Basque
separatists ETA. Israeli statesman Ben Gurion dies. Top Jewish figure Joseph
Sieff, head of Marks & Spencer, survives a terrorist gun attack. The most
popular record this Christmas is Slade's raucous Merry Xmas Everybody, a product
of glam rock but an enduring hit.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              321 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 9, 1999, Wednesday

IN BAD COMPANY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 179 words


JONATHAN Aitken will spend his nights yards from some of Britain's most evil
criminals.

Belmarsh Prison is a category B jail and houses terrorists, murderers and
gangsters.

Aitken will remain there for several weeks until he is assessed and sent to a
permanent prison.

A Prison Service official said: "Inmates are given a check to see if they are a
suicide risk.

"Their mental and physical state is also considered and where their relatives
live.

"They are then sent to the most appropriate prison."

Belmarsh, near Charlton in south east London, houses some of Britain's most
dangerous men.

It has a maximum security unit for prisoners held on remand and its own court so
suspected terrorists and murderers do not have to be taken outside.

Road rage murder suspect Kenneth Noye, awaiting trial over the murder of Stephen
Cameron on an M25 slip road, is being held on remand there along with London
nail bomb suspect David Copeland.

And Mardi Gra bomber Edgar Pearce was a long-term resident. He spent more than
18 months in Belmarsh.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              322 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 13, 1999, Sunday

BOMB HOAX SPARKS FEAR OF VENDETTA AGAINST IRISH IN BRITAIN;
 HOAX BOMB SPARKS IRISH VENDETTA FEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 445 words


MAVERICK loyalists could be planning a terror campaign against Irish ex-pats in
Britain.

The chilling warning comes after an elaborate hoax bomb was found outside a pub
owned by an Irishman and used by Irish people in Birmingham.

Police are probing leads in the one-off incident and are keeping an open mind as
to who could be behind it.

But the device, which was destroyed in a controlled explosion, did have all the
hallmarks of a 'professional hoax'.

Bomb disposal experts sealed off a large area before the blast and then combed
the ground for more than five hours in the hunt for clues.

The device, a red petrol can with electric wiring attached, was discovered on
waste land just beside the Irish-owned bar in the Erdington area of the city.

CONTINUED FROM PAGE ONE

Traffic had to be diverted away from the area as more than a dozen officers
threw a ring of steel around the scene.

Nearby residents reported hearing a 'loud blast' as the bomb was dealt with.

The bar, on Sutton Road, is known to be a regular haunt for Irish people in the
city.

Birmingham police say the 'sinister' device lay just yards from the front of the
pub on a grassy area.

It was discovered by a member of the public in the early hours of the morning
last Thursday.

No warnings had been issued and police have heard of no claims of responsibility
since the hoax was found.

Twenty-five years ago Birmingham was the scene of carnage when the IRA murdered
21 people in two city centre blasts.

Neo-nazi elements in the city are thought to bear a grudge against all Irish
folk as a result - particulary since no one has been caged for the slaughter
since the innocent Birmingham Six walked free.

A spokeswoman for West Midlands police said the incident appeared to be a 'one
-off', but that cops are 'keeping an open mind'.

"The investigation is on-going, but it appears that someone has a sick sense of
humour," she told Sunday People last night.

An official at the Birmingham Irish Welfare Centre said: "There has been no
information from anyone about where this thing might have come from.

"I don't think it would be wise to rule out this Combat 18 crowd just now and
people are bearing that in mind."

The chilling incident comes just weeks after police in London charged a man in
connection with three neo-nazi bomb blasts in London.

Britain had been on alert fearing that copycat right-wing extremists - such as
Combat 18 or the shadowy White Wolves - may want to continue the murderous
assault which killed three people in a Soho gay bar.

It is known that Irish Catholics are among those on the neo-nazis hate list.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              323 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 13, 1999, Sunday

HOAX BOMB SPARKS IRISH VENDETTA FEAR

BYLINE: Jason Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 328 words


MAVERICK loyalists could be planning a terror campaign against Irish ex-pats in
Britain.

The chilling warning comes after an elaborate hoax bomb was found outside a pub
owned by an Irishman and used by Irish people in Birmingham.

Police are probing leads in the one-off incident and are keeping an open mind as
to who could be behind it.

But the device, which was destroyed in a controlled explosion, did have all the
hallmarks of a 'professional hoax'.

Bomb disposal experts sealed off a large area before the blast and then combed
the ground for more than five hours in the hunt for clues.

The device, a red petrol can with electric wiring attached, was discovered on
waste land just beside the Irish-owned bar in the Erdington area of the city.

Traffic had to be diverted away from the area as more than a dozen officers
threw a ring of steel around the scene.

Nearby residents reported hearing a 'loud blast' as the bomb was dealt with.

The bar, on Sutton Road, is known to be a regular haunt for Irish people in the
city.

Birmingham police say the 'sinister' device lay just yards from the front of the
pub on a grassy area.

It was discovered by a member of the public in the early hours of the morning
last Thursday.

No warnings had been issued and police have heard of no claims of responsibility
since the hoax was found.

Twenty-five years ago Birmingham was the scene of carnage when the IRA murdered
21 people in two city centre blasts.

Neo-nazi elements in the city are thought to bear a grudge against all Irish
folk as a result - particulary since no one has been caged for the slaughter
since the innocent Birmingham Six walked free.

A spokeswoman for West Midlands police said the incident appeared to be a 'one
-off', but that they are 'keeping an open mind'.

The chilling incident comes just weeks after police in London charged a man in
connection with three neo-nazi bomb blasts in London.

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              324 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            June 17, 1999, Thursday

POUNDS 10 M;
 THAT'S WHAT IT'S COSTING US TO MOVE PARLIAMENT 50YDS AND MAKE IT SAFE

BYLINE: Ron Mackenna

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1, 2

LENGTH: 406 words


BRITAIN'S spymasters demanded the Scottish Parliament be moved to protect it
from car bombers.

Architects were told to ensure the new Holyrood building is at least 90 feet
from any roads to reduce the risk from any terrorist attacks.

The security order is part of a pounds 10million package of anti-bomb measures
secretly ordered by spook chiefs at M15 and M16.

The demands came in response to the Oklahoma bombing in 1995 which killed 168
people and injured 500.

Scottish Office chief architect Dr John Gibbons confirmed they had taken advice
from "security services" over the design.

He added: "It's all to do with the distance from the road. Blast protection has
been an important consideration in the overall shape of the building."

The pounds 10million security demand is a major factor in the spiralling
construction costs, which have soared to pounds 109million after an original
estimate of half that.

It is claimed, however, that Holyrood will be the safest building in Britain
when it's finished in 2001.

Dr Gibbons said: "Sometimes the building collapsing, like in the Oklahoma case,
can cause more deaths than the actual bomb.

"So you must also ensure you construct them in such a way that they are strong
enough not to collapse."

Spanish architect Enric Miralles has had to radically redraw his design to cut
down dramatically on areas of glass which could maim or kill if shattered by a
bomb.

A listed tenement building on the edge of the site which can't be knocked down
is also to be reinforced with concrete to make it blast-proof.

And it's said the swoops and curves of the boat-shaped building will channel any
blast waves away and reduce damage.

Miralles revealed: "The amount of glass in the building has been reduced and the
remaining areas will be coated with a substance that prevents the glass flying -
but overall the design has not changed a great deal."

Rebel MSPs will today try and stop the new parliament moving from its temporary
position on The Mound on Edinburgh's Royal Mile to Holyrood.

But it is highly unlikely the Government will cave in on the move.

A Labour source explained: "There was some repositioning of the building to make
sure it was as far away from the roads as possible and within MI5/MI6
guidelines.

"This was done at various stages of the design as the blast proofing was also
built in - you can see that from the plans."

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ARCHITECT: Miralles

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              325 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 18, 1999, Friday

Parliament hit by IRA bomb

BYLINE: Christopher Walker

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 454 words


This was an attempt by the IRA to strike at the heart of government. Ten years
later the Grand Hotel, Brighton, was bombed during the Conservative Party
Conference and in 1991 Downing Street was mortar-bombed. Parliament hit by IRA
bomb

The first warning of yesterday's explosion at the Houses of Parliament came in
what is now the traditional fashion of the Provisional IRA's terror campaign in
Britain.

At 8.22am a man speaking with an Irish accent telephoned from a call box to the
headquarters of the Press Association in Fleet Street. He said that a bomb was
due to go off in the House of Commons in six minutes, but failed to give the
exact location.

The switchboard operator became aware that the call was serious when the man
repeated the secret code word which has become accepted by Scotland Yard as
evidence of a genuine bomb warning.

Six minutes later the bomb, containing 20lb of explosive, blew up next to the
staff canteen in an area adjoining Westminster Hall. A gas main was fractured
and a fierce fire broke out, at one time threatening the whole roof of the
historic hall.

More than 100 firemen fought to keep the blaze under control. They were hampered
by thick smoke, which also prevented bomb squad policemen from moving in
immediately to look for clues to the bomb's origin.

The first policemen arrived at the building at 8.26am after a call to their
operations room. But they had not been able to begin evacuating the palace
before the bomb exploded, injuring 11 people.

A handful of MPs were working in the building when the bomb went off and some
cleaning staff were on duty. Outside, a few yards from the scene of the
explosion, labourers were putting the finishing touches to the work on the new
underground car park, which has been under construction for more than a year.

Mrs Patricia Gaskin, a cleaner aged 42, was the worst injured. She was taken to
St Thomas's Hospital with a broken leg. Her condition last night was
comfortable.

Apart from a fireman, most of those injured were House of Commons staff,
including two telephone engineers who were in a rest room directly above the
canteen area. Both were rescued by ladders put up by firemen wearing breathing
apparatus.

Throughout the early part of the day clouds of dense smoke filled Parliament
Square and traffic in central London was diverted as police searched the
building to find if anyone was trapped.

Although the bombing bore all the marks of the Provisional IRA, no organisation
had claimed responsibility up to last night.

For some years the Palace of Westminster has been an important potential target,
its attractions to terrorists unrelated to any specific event in Ulster...


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              326 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                 June 20, 1999

I warned MI5 of assassination bid on ambassador;
Informer claims security services failed to step up guard on shot Israeli envoy
'They knew he was on a hit list'

BYLINE: Nick Fielding

SECTION: Pg. 35

LENGTH: 611 words


BRITAIN'S intelligence services had advance warning of the assassination attempt
which sparked Israel's 1982 invasion of Lebanon, according to a startling new
report.

The claim comes from a British man serving life for murder, who says he provided
Special Branch contacts with detailed information on the three men who carried
out the attack on Israeli ambassador Shlomo Argov outside the Dorchester Hotel
in Park Lane, London.

It led, he claims, to their arrest less than an hour later.

Liverpudlian Ronald Waldron's allegation has parallels with former MI5 officer
David Shayler's assertion that MI5 also had advance warning of the bombing
attack on the Israeli Embassy in July 1994.

Shayler alleged that the warning had been ignored and the report hidden in a
cupboard.

Argov was shot in the head by Palestinian terrorist Hussein Ras-san Sa'id on
June 3, 1982. He never recovered fully and has remained in an Israeli hospital
ever since.

Sa'id was wounded in the neck by a shot fired by Argov's personal protection
officer, Detective Colin Simpson, and arrested at the scene.

His two accomplices, Marwan al Bana and Nawaf Russan, were arrested in South
London only 40 minutes after the attack. All three were members of the
Palestinian terrorist group run by the notorious Abu Nidal. Sa'id and al Bana
were sentenced to 30 years in prison, while Russan got 35 years.

Two weeks ago Sa'id gave his first interview, by phone from prison to the
Israeli newspaper Ha'aretz, in which he said he had always wondered why his
accomplices had been arrested so quickly. 'We all thought there was a traitor in
the organisation,' he added.

According to Ha'aretz reporter Ronen Bergman, that traitor was Waldron, who is
in Parkhurst Prison on the Isle of Wight for killing his five-year-old nephew in
1983.

Waldron had a reputation as a hard-drinking and violent man in the Seventies
when he became an informer for Liverpool CID, quickly establishing himself as an
important asset after making contact with a number of pro-Palestinian groups.

He increased his standing with Arab friends after setting fire to a synagogue in
Liverpool in 1979, an act which led to a 33-month prison sentence, of which he
served half.

When Waldron was arrested for murder in 1983, MI5 was reportedly paying his
water, electricity and phone bills, plus GBP 100 for every item of information
he provided. Wal-dron was also interviewed recently by the Ha'aretz newspaper
and said: 'I told them (MI5) that they were planning to kill Argov. They knew
Argov was on the list, but still left him with one bodyguard, completely exposed
to the assassin's bullets. That was really a crime.' He says that Sa'id's
girlfriend at the time, Ann Rose, was also working for MI5 and that she, too,
provided advance warning of the assassination attempt.

Waldron's claims have to be treated with caution. At various times he has
claimed to have killed up to 19 people.

Ronen Bergman says: 'He is a liar and a fantasist, but I am sure he gave Special
Branch intimate information about this terrorist cell. That is the only
explanation for how they were all arrested so quickly.' Bergman adds that
Waldron has knowledge of the details of the case that were never made public.

The story of Waldron's role as an informer is bound to cause consternation to
the security services.

It will also reinforce Israeli demands that they be allowed to protect their own
officials in Britain, an issue that has caused considerable friction between the
two countries, compounded by Shayler's revelations about the ignored warning of
the Israeli Embassy attack in 1994.


LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: VIOLENT: INFORMER WALDRON INJURED: WOULD-BE ASSASSIN SA'ID WAS SHOT BY
A BODYGUARD TARGET: SHLOMO ARGOV

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              327 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 June 21, 1999

World News in 1975

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 970 words


'She may look a typical Conservative woman... but she stands four-square with
men in intellect and tenacity'

JANUARY: In Britain, Dr Donald Coggan is the new Archbishop of Canterbury;
Burmah Oil collapses but is baled out by the Government; a ten per cent rise in
the price of oil is reported; wage inflation reaches 28.5 per cent; TV licences
are now GBP 18 for colour and GBP 7 for black and white; two workers die at
Windscale nuclear power station, apparently of leukaemia. Portugal agrees to
give Angola independence after a 13-year war waged by nationalists, but civil
war continues between rival liberation factions.

FEBRUARY: Barbadians celebrate as the Queen knights cricketing hero Gary Sobers,
a world-class batsman and spin bowler. A nationwide hunt starts in Britain for
an IRA man who shoots dead 21-year-old Pc Stephen Tibble in a London street; an
IRA bomb factory is discovered in Hammersmith. British scientist Sir Julian
Huxley dies.

MARCH: King Faisal of Saudi Arabia, most powerful and moderate of Islamic
leaders, is assassinated by his crazed nephew - Crown Prince Khalid succeeds. In
Iraq, an army assault is mounted on Kurdish separatist rebels who have engaged
in sporadic guerrilla warfare for 20 years. Ethiopia becomes a republic. US
actress Susan Hayward, Greek magnate Aristotle Onassis and British composer Sir
Arthur Bliss die.

APRIL: Russian Anatonly Karpov, 23, becomes the youngest world chess champion by
default when the title holder, American Bobby Fischer, fails to meet an entry
deadline. As more sectors claim higher wages, the number of jobless in Britain
soars over the million mark. General Chiang Kai Shek, president of Nationalist
China, dies at 87. Also dying is US-born entertainer Josephine Baker, exotic
darling of the Folies Bergeres in the 1920s.

MAY: Junko Tabei of Japan becomes the first woman to reach the summit of
Everest. In Yorkshire, a tourist coach plunges off a moorland road, killing 32
elderly passengers from Teesside. The British government introduces a Bill to
nationalise shipbuilding and the aircraft industry. Nine IRA members are jailed
for running a bomb campaign in Birmingham. Frank Sinatra wins damages from the
BBC over a programme linking him to the Mafia. American motorcycle stunt rider
Evel Knievel is badly injured when he tries to jump 13 buses.

JUNE: The first of Britain's North Sea oil, from the Argyll field 200 miles east
of Edinburgh, is piped ashore to BP's Isle of Grain refinery. After eight years,
the Suez Canal is reopened to all shipping except Israel's. A London inquest
finds Lord Lucan guilty of murder in his absence. At Lord's cricket ground, the
West Indies beat Australia in the first World Cup. In India, Prime Minister
Indira Gandhi is found guilty of electoral corruption.

JULY: At Wimbledon, as Billie Jean King wins her sixth singles title, Arthur
Ashe beats Jimmy Connors to become the first black men's singles champion. In a
symbolic detente, US and Soviet astronauts meet in space and share each other's
spaceships. International terrorist Carlos, working for the Palestinians, is
sought after his "safe house" is found in London with a list of prospective
victims. British author Denis Hills is released in Uganda after being threatened
with execution for insulting Idi Amin. British actor James Robertson Justice
dies.

AUGUST: In Helsinki, 33 nations attend a summit conference to agree a pact on
world co-operation. British Leyland, which makes Austin, Morris, Rover and
Jaguar cars, becomes state owned. Sheik Rahman, the "father of Bangladesh", is
killed in a coup by army officers in Dacca. New Zealander John Walker is the
first to run a mile in under three minutes 50 seconds. In Britain, 1.25 million
people are now jobless. Ex-Ethiopian Emperor Haile Selassie and Irish statesman
Eamon de Valera die.

SEPTEMBER: US President Ford escapes assassination attempts twice in one month.
Czechoslovakian tennis champion Martina Navratilova requests political asylum in
the US. Heiress Patty Hearst, who apparently turned guerrilla after being
kidnapped by the SLA, is accused of bank robbery in San Francisco. In Beirut,
full-scale civil war breaks out between Christians and Muslims. In Nepal,
Britons Dougal Haston and Doug Scott are the first to climb Everest by the
south-west face - Mike Burke dies while attempting a second climb.

OCTOBER: A car bomb explodes outside the London home of Tory MP Hugh Fraser,
killing passerby Prof Gordon Fairley, a cancer specialist; Ulster Secretary
Merlyn Rees bans the Ulster Volunteer Force. It is now thought that 6.5 million
trees in England have been destroyed by Dutch elm disease. Soviet dissident and
human rights campaigner Dr Andrei Sakharov is awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, but
denied a visa to collect it. British actress Kate Winslet is born.

NOVEMBER: After the death of General Franco in Spain, King Juan Carlos takes the
throne - its first occupant since his grandfather Alfonso XIII went into exile
in 1931. Australian Prime Minister Gough Whitlam is dismissed from office amidst
parliamentary turmoil - Malcolm Fraser will replace him. Racing driver Graham
Hill, who has lately retired from the sport, is killed in an air crash at 46.
Ross McWhirter, co-compiler of the Guinness Book of Records, who offered a GBP
50,000 reward for the capture of the London bombers, is shot dead on his
doorstep in Enfield.

DECEMBER: International Women's Year ends with the Sex Discrimination Act and
Equal Pay Act coming into force. Pro-Palestinian terrorists seize 70 hostages,
including 11 oil ministers, at the Vienna headquarters of the Organisation of
Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). Golfer Tiger Woods is born Eldrick Woods
in California - at 21 he will become the youngest player to win the Masters
Championship.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: KATE WINSLET: Born in October Born in December

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              328 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            June 23, 1999, Wednesday

ARMY STRENGTH BOOSTED BY 2,000

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words


FRESH troops are being drafted into Northern Ireland as the security forces
prepare for possible violence at Drumcree and during the marching season.

The Army confirmed yesterday that at least 1,300 troops under the control of the
GOC Northern Ireland, but currently based in Britain, were being returned to the
Province by the end of the month.

Members of the Royal Dragoon Guards arrived in the Province on Monday. The 1st
Battalion the King's Regiment, 1st Battalion the Cheshire Regiment and members
of 32 Regiment Royal Artillery will follow in the days ahead.

An Army spokesman said military chiefs were taking "a number of prudent and
responsible measures to ensure we remain capable of providing whatever support
might be required by the RUC during the marching season".

The Army insisted: "These are precautionary measures to help the RUC to maintain
law and order and guard against possible terrorist attacks should this prove
necessary."

The 2,000 reinforcements will boost troop levels to 17,000.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              329 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 23, 1999

Freedom for the Brighton bomber;
Patrick Magee leaves prison after serving 14 years of his 35 year sentence.
'It's hard to stomach' says Number 10

BYLINE: John Mullin Ireland Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 830 words


John Mullin Ireland Correspondent

He rattled through the rusting turnstile into the car park at the Maze prison
just before 11am, every inch the bearded doctor of philosophy. He took two
smiling steps, and was smothered in the embrace of his minders.

Patrick Magee's books and files had come first, six boxes placed in a scruffy
white Ford Escort. He had studied for a Phd in troubles' fiction while in jail,
though his own contribution to Northern Ireland's war was fact, as five dead
testified.

Had the IRA's Brighton bomber served what his trial judge recommended, he would
still be in prison as a pensioner in 2020. He is, though, the 277th beneficiary
of the early release scheme for convicted terrorists, a key aspect of the Good
Friday agreement.

That deal may be stalled over the IRA's refusal to decommission its terrorist
weapons, but the effective amnesty for paramilitaries continues apace. Only 174
of them remain inside now, and the last is scheduled for release in 13 months.

Yesterday the release of Magee heightened tensions in the countdown to Tony
Blair's June 30 deadline for agreement between the parties in Northern Ireland.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said Magee's release was 'very hard to stomach',
agreeing the prisoner release scheme was 'certainly the most unpalatable and
awkward part of Northern Ireland's peace process'

Magee was, briefly, Roy Walsh, a guest who stayed three days in room 629at the
Grand Hotel in Brighton in September 1984. He left a 30lb bomb secreted behind
the bathroom wall.and set the timer for 24 days hence. His target was Prime
Minister Margaret Thatcher, and her Cabinet colleagues . Eight life sentences

It was Conservative party conference, and she stayed up late to work on her
speech. She said that had saved her after the explosion ripped through the hotel
at 2.54am on October 12. It killed MP Sir Anthony Berry, 59; Eric Taylor, 54,
north-west party chairman; and three wives of party officials, Roberta Wakeham,
45; Muriel Maclean, 54; and Jeanne Shattock, 52.

Magee, 48, the architect of the IRA's most audacious attack on the British
establishment and a plot to bomb other English seaside resorts, received eight
life sentences at the Old Bailey in 1986. As Mr Justice Boreham sentenced him to
a minimum 35-years behind bars, labelling him a man of exceptional cruelty and
inhumanity, Magee lifted his clenched fist, and shouted 'Tiocfaidh ar La". The
republican slogan translates as 'Our day will come".

As Brendan McFarlane, one of 38 IRA men to escape from the Maze in September
1983, escorted him away from waiting reporters yesterday, Magee refused to say
anything,

Jack Straw, home secretary, failed in a high court challenge in Belfast three
months ago to prevent his imminent early release under the agreement. His
justification, that different rules applied to prisoners convicted in English
courts, angered many unionists.

Although anti-agreement politicians delight in fulminating at the release of
terrorists, they also believe their British counterparts wake up to its
implications only when terrorists jailed for high-profile attacks in England are
freed. They contrast the furore surrounding the release in April of four members
of the Balcombe Street gang with the relative disinterest in the other murderers
and bombers already walking the streets of Northern Ireland.

The scheme increased the remission available to terrorists. Prisoners with
determinate sentences serve a third of the time laid down in the courts. For
lifers, the sentences' review commission, set up under the agreement, calculates
a notional release date and and then knocks off a third of the period to be
served.

The remission rates were already more generous than in Britain.

Magee was transferred from England in September 1994, hours after the IRA
announced its first ceasefire, and the high court ruling in Belfast in March
meant he was eligible for increased parole. 'Double standards'

Andrew Mackay, the Conservative Northern Ireland secretary accused the
Government of double standards and condemned Mr Blair for not implementing the
Good Friday agreement in full.

'It is being implemented to the extent that prisoners are being released early.
It is not being implemented by an end to violence and a start to decommissioning
of illegal weapons.'

David Trimble, Northern Ireland's first minister and leader of the Ulster
Unionists, said: 'The release of Patrick Magee . . . will bring home to people
the fact that the prisoner releases are continuing even though other aspects of
the Agreement, such as disarmament by paramilitary organisations, has not
actually moved forward.'

Outside the Maze, veteran republican Martin Meehan dismissed calls for the
release scheme to be halted as hypocritical, citing the early release of
soldiers convicted of murder. Magee had served 14 years, 'a life sentence in any
standard of imagination,' he said.


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              330 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 23, 1999

Freedom for the Brighton bomber;
Patrick Magee leaves prison after serving 14 years of his 35 year sentence.
'It's hard to stomach' says Number 10

BYLINE: JOHN MULLIN IRELAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 826 words


He rattled through the rusting turnstile into the car park at the Maze prison
just before 11am, every inch the bearded doctor of philosophy. He took two
smiling steps, and was smothered in the embrace of his minders.

Patrick Magee's books and files had come first, six boxes placed in a scruffy
white Ford Escort. He had studied for a PhD in troubles fiction while in jail,
though his own contribution to Northern Ireland's war was fact, as five dead
testified.

Had the IRA's Brighton bomber served what his trial judge recommended, he would
still be in prison as a pensioner in 2020. He is, though, the 277th beneficiary
of the early release scheme for convicted terrorists, a key aspect of the Good
Friday agreement.

That deal may be stalled over the IRA's refusal to decommission its terrorist
weapons, but the effective amnesty for paramilitaries continues apace. Only 174
of them remain inside now, and the last is scheduled for release in 13 months.

Yesterday the release of Magee heightened tensions in the countdown to Tony
Blair's deadline of a week today for agreement between the parties in Northern
Ireland.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said Magee's release was 'very hard to stomach',
agreeing the prisoner release scheme was 'certainly the most unpalatable and
awkward part of Northern Ireland's peace process'.

Magee was, briefly, Roy Walsh, a guest who stayed three days in room 629 at the
Grand Hotel in Brighton in September 1984. He left a 30lb bomb behind the
bathroom wall, and set the timer for 24 days hence. His target was the prime
minister Margaret Thatcher, and her cabinet colleagues .

Eight life sentences

It was Conservative party conference, and she stayed up late to work on her
speech. She said that had saved her after the explosion ripped through the hotel
at 2.54am on October 12. It killed MP Sir Anthony Berry, 59; Eric Taylor, 54,
north-west party chairman; and three wives of party officials, Roberta Wakeham,
45; Muriel Maclean, 54; and Jeanne Shattock, 52.

Magee, 48, the architect of the IRA's most audacious attack on the British
establishment and a plot to bomb other English seaside resorts, received eight
life sentences at the Old Bailey in 1986. As Mr Justice Boreham sentenced him to
a minimum 35 years behind bars, labelling him a man of exceptional cruelty and
inhumanity, Magee lifted his clenched fist, and shouted 'Tiocfaidh ar La". The
republican slogan translates as 'Our day will come".

As Brendan McFarlane, one of 38 IRA men to escape from the Maze in September
1983, escorted him away from waiting reporters yesterday, Magee refused to say
anything,

Jack Straw, home secretary, failed in a high court challenge in Belfast three
months ago to prevent his imminent early release under the agreement. His
justification, that different rules applied to prisoners convicted in English
courts, angered many unionists.

Although anti-agreement politicians delight in fulminating at the release of
terrorists, they also believe their British counterparts wake up to its
implications only when terrorists jailed for high-profile attacks in England are
freed. They contrast the furore surrounding the release in April of four members
of the Balcombe Street gang with the relative disinterest in the other murderers
and bombers already walking the streets of Northern Ireland.

The scheme increased the remission available to terrorists. Prisoners with
determinate sentences serve a third of the time laid down in the courts. For
lifers, the sentences' review commission, set up under the agreement, calculates
a notional release date and and then knocks off a third of the period to be
served.

The remission rates were already more generous than in Britain.

Magee was transferred from England in September 1994, hours after the IRA
announced its first ceasefire, and the high court ruling in Belfast in March
meant he was eligible for increased parole.

'Double standards'

Andrew Mackay, the Conservative Northern Ireland secretary, accused the
Government of double standards and condemned Mr Blair for not implementing the
Good Friday agreement in full.

'It is being implemented to the extent that prisoners are being released early.
It is not being implemented by an end to violence and a start to decommissioning
of illegal weapons.'

David Trimble, Northern Ireland's first minister and leader of the Ulster
Unionists, said: 'The release of Patrick Magee . . . will bring home to people
the fact that the prisoner releases are continuing even though other aspects of
the agreement, such as disarmament by paramilitary organisations, has not
actually moved forward.'

Outside the Maze, veteran republican Martin Meehan dismissed calls for the
release scheme to be halted as hypocritical, citing the early release of
soldiers convicted of murder. Magee had served 14 years, 'a life sentence in any
standard of imagination', he said.


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              331 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 25, 1999, Friday

NEO-NAZI HELD FOR SENDING RACE-HATE MAIL

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 310 words


THE ALLEGED leader of a neo-Nazi group was arrested at Gatwick airport yesterday
in connection with race-hate mail sent before and during the London nail-bomb
campaign.

Officers from Special Branch arrested Del O'Connor after he arrived back in
Britain from the United States. He was released on bail.

Mr O'Connor, 39, is the alleged leader of the White Wolves, a renegade faction
of extreme right-wing group Combat 18, which has allegedly called on its
supporters to launch a race war.

He was arrested as part of an ongoing investigation by Scotland Yard into the
distribution of race-hate material. On 5 March, four people were arrested and
released on bail as part of the operation.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "A 39-year-old man was arrested in connection
with the distribution of race-hate material.

"It is part of an ongoing investigation into the extremist group known as Combat
18."

As well as being questioned about the operation in March, Mr O'Connor is
understood to have been quizzed on the race-hate material distributed during the
three nail-bomb attacks in London's Brixton, Brick Lane and Soho in April.

A stencilled message from the "Command Council of the White Wolves" was received
by the Eastern Eye newspaper two days before the Brixton bombing on 17 April.

Another message sent after the blast said: "C18 did not carry out the Brixton
bombing. We, the White Wolves, did."

It was not clear why Mr O'Connor returned from the United States but it was
thought to be linked to a visa problem.

It was not known if American officials had tipped off British police.

"Why he left the States is a matter for the US authorities," the police
spokeswoman added.

t David Copeland, from Cove, Hampshire, has been charged with murder in
connection with the London nail bombings. He is awaiting trial.

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              332 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 26, 1999

Britain shuts threatened missions

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 473 words


Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

Britain closed its diplomatic missions in four African countries yesterday after
security threats linked to Osama bin Laden, the Saudi fundamentalist blamed for
the death of more than 250 people in bomb attacks on two American embassies last
summer.

The foreign office said that its missions in Gambia, Madagascar, Namibia and
Senegal had been shut because of specific warnings of possible terrorist
attacks.

The move, based on precise intelligence, came a day after the United States
announced that its embassies in six African countries would be closed for the
next three days because of serious security concerns.

The American closures were in the same countries as the British, with the
addition of the west African states of Liberia and Togo. The state department in
Washington said the US embassies were 'under surveillance by suspicious
individuals" and that the decision had been taken on the basis of 'concrete
information'.

It is understood that the threat, directed specifically against diplomatic
missions and not British nationals, emanated from Bin Laden's notorious Al
-Qaeda group, which is targeting the US and Britian as new 'crusaders' occupying
and defiling the Muslim holy places of Saudi Arabia.

A fatwa or religious ruling issued by Bin Laden in February 1998 bracketed
Britain clearly with the US.

Britain's participation as Washington's only military ally in last December's
Desert Fox attacks on Iraq brought new concerns. Just before Christmas three
British embassies in east Africa were closed for security reasons for three
days.

US embassies throughout the world have been especially vigilant since US
intelligence officials revealed that Bin Laden and his followers, organised in
loose, transnational networks, may be close to launching another attack.

The British closures came as a Saudi Arabian, wanted by the US over the African
embassy bombings, faces extradition hearings in London. Khaled al -Fawwaz has
insisted he opposes violence.

James Rubin, the US state department spokesman, said the US would review its clo
sures after the weekend.

Earlier this month it was reported that intercepted telephone calls and other
communications indicated that terrorists and bomb-making material were being
moved into position. The US embassy in Mozambique was videotaped from a parked
car that drove away at high speed when approached by police. In Ghana and
Senegal, attempts were made to find weaknesses in US embassy security.

Coincidentally, Britain and Sudan announced yesterday that they had agreed to
allow diplomatic staff to return to embassies in London and Khartoum. Sudan
demanded last August that Britain withdrew its ambassador because of support for
the US missile attack on a factory following the embassy bombings.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 27, 1999, Sunday

BRITAIN ON TERROR BOMBING ALERT AS IRISH PEACE FALTERS

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson And Greg Harkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 408 words


SECURITY chiefs are on red alert for a mainland terror blitz if the Northern
Ireland peace process collapses.

Tony Blair has given Sinn Fein's Gerry Adams and Ulster Unionist leader David
Trimble until Wednesday to agree a power sharing deal.

Experts fear renegades could return to violence if there is no agreement.

The Real IRA and Continuity IRA have death squads in Britain ready to launch
atrocities.

A security source said: "They are planning spectaculars like the Docklands and
Manchester bombings and the executions of high-profile public figures."

A group called the True IRA has already ended its ceasefire. A spokesman said:
"We've had enough. We will be resuming military operations."

However, Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam is optimistic of a breakthrough.

She said: "It would be a crime to lose the progress that has been made. We'll
make something work."

Meanwhile, Bill Clinton has offered to mediate between the factions and plans to
tell Mr Adams: "It's time to hand in some guns."

The Sunday People has learned that Mr Clinton will speak to the Sinn Fein boss
from the White House via a video linked to Stormont.

It was the President's phone calls in the early hours of Good Friday last year
which persuaded all sides to sign the peace deal.

A security insider said yesterday: "This time it's going to be different.

"With this video link the President will be able to look each and every
political leader in the eye."

Mr Blair and Irish Premier Bertie Ahern flew to Belfast on Friday to see if Mr
Adams was serious about peace. Mr Clinton will use the video link to do the same
thing.

Speaking in Washington, the President warned that time was running out for peace
and offered to do "anything to help save it".

He added: "I have invested a great deal in the process of peace and I don't
think we have a great deal of time to resolve these issues.

"How in goodness name can we let this peace process fall apart?"

Mr Blair and Mr Ahern have cleared their diaries to return to Belfast tomorrow
in a final push towards a settlement.

They want Unionists to water down demands for the immediate handover of
terrorist weapons and the IRA to agree complete decommissioning by May.

MORE than 1,300 British troops are returning to Northern Ireland to deal with
next Sunday's Drumcree march which ended in violence last year.

Voice of the Sunday People:

Page 8

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPTIMISTIC: Mo Mowlam; TALKS: Gerry Adams

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              334 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 1999, Sunday

IRA accused of bomb attempt

BYLINE: Liam Clarke

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 639 words


Threat to send prisoners back to jail

THE Provisional IRA was behind a recent attempted bomb attack on Londonderry.
Police and dissident republicans say explosive substances seized by gardai in Co
Donegal last week were owned by the Provisional IRA and not dissidents, as had
previously been thought.

The IRA is thought to have been planning a "no-claim" attack to bolster its
bargaining power at next week's negotiations in Belfast. Now that its
involvement has been uncovered, the incident puts a question mark over the
continued release of prisoners.

Mo Mowlam, Northern Ireland secretary, says in a GMTV interview broadcast today
that she will return the IRA's freed prisoners to jail if she believes it has
resumed violence. Patrick Magee, the Brighton bomber, was released only last
week.

Sir Ronnie Flanagan, the RUC chief constable, has told Mowlam that the IRA is
responsible for four murders in the past year and was behind the attempted
murder of Martin McGartland, a resettled IRA informer, in Tyneside 10 days ago.

MI5 has visited other IRA informers resettled in Britain to warn them of IRA
active service units in Britain. One former agent, Raymond Gilmour, has asked
for a firearms certificate so that he can protect his family from possible
attack.

Flanagan's advice to Mowlam, which has been backed up by an MI5 assessment,
could put the release of IRA prisoners and the participation of Sinn Fein in a
new Northern Ireland executive in doubt.

The murders attributed to the IRA include:

Andrew Kearney, shot in the legs and left to bleed to death after his attackers
pulled his telephone out of the wall and jammed the lifts in his block of flats.
The IRA claimed the killing, which occurred on July 27, 1998, but said they had
meant only to wound him;

Eamon Collins, a former IRA intelligence officer turned critic of the
organisation, who was stabbed to death near his home in Newry on January 27;

Brendan "Speedy" Fagan, a drug dealer who was shot dead in a bar in Newry on May
9;

Paul "Bull" Downey, another drugs dealer whose half-naked body was found by the
roadside in Newry on June 13. He had been shot.

The attack on McGartland has sparked fears that other RUC and military
intelligence agents resettled in Britain may be targeted. Last night Gilmour, a
supergrass who infil trated the IRA in Londonderry in the late 1970s and early
1980s, revealed that he had been visited by MI5 to advise him on his security.
Sean O'Callaghan, a former garda special branch agent on the IRA GHQ staff, has
also been warned that two addresses he was using in the greater London area have
been compromised.

Gilmour, who has a new identity, has written to Scotland Yard, MI5 and Flanagan
asking for increased security following the attack on McGartland which, he said,
MI5 suggested was the work of the IRA. "They told me Martin had endangered his
own security by talking to the press, but I do not accept that," Gilmour said.

In his letter to Scotland Yard Gilmour asks for "a firearms certificate to
enable me to have the peace of mind to protect myself and my family against any
acts of premeditated revenge by these fanatics". He said: "If this cannot be
agreed upon, then I would recommend that my family be relocated in this country
or the USA."

Last night he said: "I have watched a stream of releases of IRA prisoners...They
are coming out to a hero's welcome, but nothing is said when people who helped
to fight terrorism are attacked and targeted."

Yesterday two men from Londonderry were remanded in custody in Dublin in
connection with the seizure of explosives. It was alleged they had three bags of
fertiliser, 3.5 litres of methylated spirits and a black powder substance.

The memory that won't die News Review, page 7 Mo Mowlam, Profile, page 7


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              335 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             June 27, 1999, Sunday

I can't forgive Brighton bomber

BYLINE: Jenny Shields

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1645 words


Sir Donald Maclean never dreamt he would see his wife's killer go free. Report
by Jenny Shields

The newspaper has yellowed over time and the edges are torn and brittle but Sir
Donald Maclean will never part with his copy of The Daily Telegraph. It was
brought to his hospital bed the day after the Brighton bombing and he had scored
an X on the front-page picture of the Grand Hotel.

"That's where our room was, right in the middle of that void," he says.

In the early hours of October 12, 1984 the IRA struck at the heart of the
British Establishment when a bomb exploded at the Grand Hotel in Brighton during
the Tory party conference. Their target was the prime minister, Margaret
Thatcher, and her cabinet. Five people died, including Maclean's wife, Muriel.

In the intervening years Maclean has been unable to forgive the IRA but he has
tried to put the murderous attack behind him and get on with his life. He gave
evidence at the bomber's trial and was satisfied at the judge's recommendation
that Patrick Magee serve at least 35 years.

He confessed to a ripple of unease at the Good Friday agreement's prisoner
release programme but never believed it would involve Magee.

Last Tuesday afternoon he was disabused of that hope when a reporter rang to ask
for a reaction to the news that Magee would be freed from the Maze the following
morning.

Despite his shock, Maclean managed to steady his voice and condemn the release.
Then he slumped into a chair as bitter memories flooded back.

The Macleans met shortly after he arrived in Newcastle to resume his career as
an optician after national service. He joined the Young Conservatives, where
Muriel Giles was branch secretary. They were married in 1958 and returned to
Maclean's native Perthshire.

They had a daughter, Fiona, and two years later a son, Donald, was born. In 1965
a better job meant a move to Alloway, a prosperous village on the Ayrshire
coast.

They bought a new three-bedroom house on an estate "where they still gave you a
decent-sized plot". "It was ideal. There were lots of children for ours to mix
with and we settled in quickly."

Maclean, who clearly enjoys "getting the call", was soon roped in to the local
Tory party. The children grew up and moved away. Donald joined the army at 17
and Fiona married an RAF man.

Suddenly it was just the two of them again. Muriel, a keen walker and
needlewoman, occasionally helped in the practice, they tended the garden and
life ticked by.

Maclean, who had once harboured parliamentary ambitions of his own, gradually
climbed the Tory hierarchy in Scotland and in 1983 he was elected president of
the Scottish Conservative and Unionist Association. The couple were well-kent
faces on the political scene, Maclean had attended national party conferences
since 1968 and Muriel had joined him when the children were grown up.

In 1984 they decided to make a holiday out of the Brighton conference. As
Scotland's leading Tories, they had a high-profile week ahead. Maclean would be
joining the prime minister on the platform most days and attending the various
soirees each evening.

The Macleans arrived in Brighton the evening before conference was due to begin
and were shown to room 629. "It was a lovely big room overlooking the front and
it had a proper bathroom with a high ceiling," says Maclean.

They had a pass for the multistorey car park behind the hotel and were relieved
to hear it was under 24-hour police surveillance. "That pleased me because I
didn't like the idea of the car being broken into."

Today, the idea that a high-ranking Tory should only have been concerned about a
thief almost beggars belief but Maclean insists that back then there was no
unease about a terrorist attack. "The hotel, conference centre and car park were
all behind a security cordon. We had passes to go in and out. Everything changed
after Brighton but at the time everyone was relaxed."

On Thursday he hosted the traditional Scottish night before taking his wife out
for a quiet dinner at a nearby restaurant. There they met up with two other
couples from Ayr whom they invited back to their room for a nightcap.

It was about 1am when the Macleans got into their twin beds, which were just a
few yards from their panelled bath, where the bomb planted by Magee a few weeks
earlier was about to go off.

If Maclean ever needs to remind himself of the hell that followed he only has to
play a video. An ITN camera crew filmed part of his rescue and sent him the
tape, a macabre reminder of a miraculous escape.

There he is, conscious, but lying at a crazy angle, hair and pyjamas caked in a
thick layer of white dust. Fireman are reassuring and shouting by turn as they
hoist him from the edge of an abyss to safety.

"I just wish I'd had my specs on for a clearer view," he says now. A spare pair
were eventually brought to the hospital - after police broke into his car.

From a hospital trolley he managed to phone his sister Margaret, who was holding
the fort in Alloway. "By then word had filtered back from the Special Branch
boys that it probably was a bomb and the feeling was of wonderment that anyone
had survived."

He says one of the most vivid memories of that morning was his young
radiographer turning to him in tears and, in her Irish brogue, asking if he
wanted someone else to x-ray his legs. "She said, 'I'm so ashamed of what has
happened' and it dawned on me that it was probably the IRA's work. That poor
girl, to be embarrassed by your own countrymen. I told her to carry on, that she
had a job to do and hadn't done me any harm."

As Muriel, who had suffered severe injuries to her legs and chest, was brought
out of surgery, the doctors wheeled Maclean into the recovery room. "We were
lying, head to head, on our trolleys, just able to hold hands and reassure each
other. Muriel was terribly woozy from the anaesthetic but it was just a relief
to see each other."

Maclean's injuries were never life-threatening but his recovery was slow and he
was to spend 10 weeks in hospital. Initially the doctors were hopeful about
Muriel, but it soon became clear that the injuries to her chest were more
serious than first thought.

Muriel, who had been blown into the room of the Australian high commissioner
next door, ending up at the foot of his bed, put up a valiant fight. Her
children had been flown back to Britain from their foreign postings and she was
able to talk to them. "A typical mother, she was much more concerned about their
welfare than her own," Maclean recalls.

"She was upbeat. I don't think it ever crossed her mind she wouldn't be going
home but by the Sunday her breathing was very laboured so they sedated her and
put her on a ventilator." She never regained consciousness.

The Macleans had been visited by Thatcher the day after the bombing and the
prime minister phoned the hospital every day to check on their progress. When
doctors lost the fight to save Muriel's leg, Thatcher made a private 20-minute
call to Maclean, sympathising over the amputation. "That was extraordinarily
caring, especially as it was the state opening of parliament that day."

Maclean gradually realised, as he visited the intensive-care unit each day, that
his wife was slipping away. "I'd be in my wheelchair beside Muriel's bed and
Norman Tebbit would be in his chair beside (his wife) Margaret's bed. It was a
tough time."The family was spared the ordeal of turning off the ventilator.
Muriel died naturally after suffering organ failure. It was exactly five weeks
after the bombing.

Maclean, who is now 68, was flown to Glasgow and admitted to the Royal
Infirmary. On the day of his wife's funeral he was driven home to Alloway by
ambulance.

He was discharged from hospital just before Christmas and returned to work the
following February. He never shut himself away. Life has to go on. "Yes, there
is always some anger I suppose, but family, friends and faith, together they are
a great support and every life has its highs and lows."

In 1986 Maclean gave evidence at Magee's trial at the Old Bailey. "I saw this
thing in the dock and avoided looking at it. I didn't regard Magee as human."

He lives alone in the family house, which has the tidy barrenness of single
occupation. There are a couple of pictures of himself and Muriel, some of the
grandchildren and, in a corner, a faded colour photograph of Maclean at
Buckingham Palace after receiving his knighthood. He is standing tall, in
morning suit, but it is little wonder he looks so strained - it was the first
anniversary of his wife's funeral.

"It was a day of mixed emotions. I was enormously proud, and delighted that my
children were there ... but as I was knighted it occured that I was Sir Donald
but there was no Lady Maclean and she had always worked so hard for the party."

"There are anniversaries when I am forced to recollect things, but time does
make things hazy," he says.

His legacy from the bombing is sad memories, a pile of old press cuttings and,
in damp and cold, aching ankles. "They've never been the same and I can't do as
much exercise as I want, which is a pity," he says.

He is concerned at the way Blair is handling the peace process. "Of course we
want peace in Northern Ireland and John Major was absolutely right to start the
initiative but I am concerned that any British administration should be giving
away so many concessions without the slightest move by IRA/Sinn Fein to meet us
even halfway," he says.

"There has been no forswearing of violence, not one bullet handed in, one gun
laid down nor any expression of regret, remorse or apology. I would like to
think I was a good enough man to be able to forgive Magee but I can't, I have
nothing but utter contempt for him." The end game: News Review, page 7


LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              336 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                 June 29, 1999

National dates Sub Head:

SECTION: Supplement: Plymouth People's History, Pg.10

LENGTH: 347 words


JULY 21, 1953: Vietnam is divided along the 17th Parallel into Communist north,
and French-backed south.

DECEMBER 2, 1954: Senator Joseph McCarthy, who has led Communist witch-hunts in
the US, is condemned by Congress for unbecoming conduct.

APRIL 5, 1955: Sir Winston Churchill, 80, resigns as prime minister, and is
succeeded by Anthony Eden.

MAY 27, 1955: Tories, under new leader Eden, win General Election with a
majority of 58.

OCTOBER 31, 1955: Princess Margaret's wedding to Capt Peter Townsend is called
off.

NOVEMBER 28, 1955: State of emergency declared in Cyprus after two British
soldiers are killed in terrorist attacks.

JUNE 29, 1956: Martial law is imposed in Poznan, Poland, after riots against
Communist rule.

OCTOBER 26, 1956: Fighting in Hungary, as people revolt against Soviet rule.

NOVEMBER 5, 1956: Red Army tanks crush Hungarian revolution.

JANUARY 10, 1957: Harold Macmillan, 62, is new prime minister after Eden
resigns.

MARCH 25, 1957: Rome Treaty creates Common Market - Britain is not a member.

OCTOBER 4, 1957: Russia starts the space race by launching first man-made
satellite: Sputnik-I.

NOVEMBER 3, 1957: First dog in space is a Russian called Laika who orbits the
earth.

FEBRUARY 6, 1958: Seven Manchester United players die when their aircraft
crashes at Munich airport. An eighth, Duncan Edwards, dies later.

MARCH 24, 1958: Rocker Elvis Presley, 23, joins the US Army for a two-year
stint.

SEPTEMBER 9, 1958: Race riots flare in Notting Hill, West London, after white
youths taunt black immigrants.

DECEMBER 5, 1958: Britain's first stretch of motorway, the eight -mile Preston
bypass, is opened.

FEBRUARY 3, 1959: Rock legend Buddy Holly dies in an air crash, aged just 22.

MAY 28, 1959: The USA sends two monkeys into space.

AUGUST 18, 1959: The British Motor Corporation launches the Mini.

OCTOBER 9, 1959: Macmillan's Tories win third successive General Election.

FEBRUARY 3, 1960: Macmillan makes his famous "wind of change" speech to the
South African Parliament, Capetown.

notepaper_torn

notepaper_torn

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              337 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 June 29, 1999

Immoral earnings;
John Pilger New Labour's ethical foreign policy is a joke at the expense of
Kurds, Burmese and East Timorese

BYLINE: ??

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 850 words


In a series of self-promoting interviews, Tony Blair has taken his 'new moral
crusade" to the United States. Having played the belligerent finch to Clinton's
turkey, Blair's message now is that 'no dictators who are tempted to resolve
their political problems by terrorising their own people or attacking their
neighbours" will be safe from his civilising sword. The immediate aim, no doubt,
is to blur the truth of Nato's great crime of slaughtering or maiming 10,000
innocent people and its provocation, now confirmed, of the worst Serb atrocities
and the flood of refugees in the first days of the bombing.

Hypocrisy continues to rain on the victory parade, as the list of exemptions to
Blair's crusade grows by the day. Israel and Turkey we know about; the Turkish
govern ment, a founding member of Nato, has ethnically cleansed 300,000 of its
Kurdish citizens, leaving 30,000 dead and a nation of refugees. It is not only
exempt, but armed by Blair's favoured machine-gun maker, British Aerospace. So
is Indonesia. Having killed more than half a million 'communists", the Suharto
regime went on to finish off a third of the population of East Timor. The
British ambassador in Jakarta at the time cabled the Foreign Office that it was
'in Britain's interests" that the Indonesian tyrants 'absorb (East Timor) as
soon and as unobtrusively as possible".

Nothing has changed. On June 21, the week Blair was telling Newsweek magazine
how he would soon have tyrants quaking in their jackboots, Llew Smith MP asked
the foreign office minister, Geoffrey Hoon, what submissions the government
would be making to the International War Crimes Tribunal about the multiple
atrocities ordered and approved by Suharto. 'We have no such plans," was Hoon's
crisp reply.

The exemption of the medieval Burmese regime is less well known. Last week, it
completed the ethnic cleansing of 300,000 Shan people from their villages,
driving them into the jungle 'relocation zones" where the Shan language and
religion are banned; many of the very young and elderly did not survive. The
generals who routinely planned and executed this are also looking after 'British
interests": specifically a $ 700m oil consortium, led by Premier Oil, which is
building a pipeline through an area where thousands of people have been forced
from their homes. Nearby, in 1996, I witnessed young children toiling under
armed guard, building a bridge for the army. I saw a nine-year -old boy almost
buried alive making bricks, a 12-year-old girl collapse beneath the weight of
the load on her head.

Compared with the gang in Rangoon, Milosevic is a wimp. It is estimated there
are two million people like the children I saw. Year after year, the United
Nations deplores the regime's 'extra- judicial and arbitrary executions, rape,
torture, mass arrests, forced labour, forced relocation . . ." The International
Labour Organisation describes Burma's 'systematic and widespread forced labour"
as 'a crime against humanity". Last year, Robin Cook said the regime was one of
the few in the world whose members profited from the drugs trade.

Half of Burma's budget goes on one of the biggest armies in the world, whose
only enemy is the Burmese people. To pay for this tool of oppression, the regime
is able to raise hard currency loans on the prospect of long-term riches from
its deals with oil companies: Total, Unocal and Premier Oil. Aung San Suu Kyi,
the elected leader of Burma still under virtual house arrest, said recently:
'Premier Oil is not only supporting this military government financially, it is
also giving it moral support, and it is doing a great disservice to the cause of
democracy. It should be ashamed of itself."

In opposition, New Labour made a clear promise to impose sanctions on
'investment" that bankrolls the modern-day slavers running Burma. It represented
the lowest ethical threshold for the new government. 'It's the very least they
can do," Aung San Suu Kyi told me. Once in office, Labour reneged, spinning
falsehoods about 'legal difficulties". Last month, a French parliamentary
investigation found that, in spite of having evidence that the Burmese army had
used forced labour in the initial preparation of the pipeline site shared both
by Total and Premier Oil, the British government 'has failed to target Premier's
involvement in Burma". In denying complicity, Premier has produced a booklet,
extolling its 'global principles" of 'honesty, integrity, fairness", designed by
Saatchi and Saatchi.

In their New Labour manual, The Blair Revolution: Can Labour Deliver? Peter
Mandelson and Roger Liddle highlighted Britain's 'economic strengths" as its
multinational companies, its 'aerospace" industry (weapons) and 'the pre
-eminence of the City of London". Those are the true, if unsung priorities of
Blairism. Like the famous hoax of an 'ethical" foreign policy, the 'new moral
crusade" is designed for compliant headlines. Translated, it means the Orwellian
opposite. As the European elections demonstrated, the voters, no fools, appear
to have cracked the code.


LOAD-DATE: June 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                  July 1, 1999

Blast attack former soldier says: 'I'm praying for peace'

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 207 words


A FORMER Westcountry soldier who was injured in one of the most horrific IRA
attacks in Britain said last night: "I'm praying for peace. I don't want anyone
else to have to experience the carnage that I saw on that day."

Michael Pedersen from Lostwithiel in Cornwall, was a member of a 16-man troop of
the Household Cavalry's Blues and Royals Regiment when they were hit by a nail
bomb in Hyde Park 17 years ago this month.

An officer and three soldiers were killed and many horses were mutilated in the
blast, and Michael, then a 21-year -old trooper, suffered facial burns, shrapnel
wounds, a 6-inch nail embedded in his right hand, and a perforated eardrum.

His mount, Sefton, also survived horrific injuries including a partially severed
jugular vein and became a national equine hero. As he slowly recovered from his
injuries he became the most famous horse in the country and later even appeared
in a television documentary.

At the time, as a serving soldier, Michael was not permitted to talk about what
happened, but last night he told the WMN of that terrible day when an IRA nail
bomb exploded as the Blues and Royals were trotting through Rotten Row on their
way to the Changing of the Guard.

- Full story - Page 18

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              339 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        The Times Educational Supplement

                                  July 2, 1999

Spell of Celtic magic; Ireland in schools

BYLINE: GERALDINE BRENNAN

LENGTH: 1433 words


An IRA bomb that killed two Warrington boys prompted local schools to take a
closer look at Irish writing. Geraldine Brennan reports

The plaque in memory of three-year-old Johnathan Ball and 12-year-old Tim Parry,
killed by an IRA bomb in April 1993, is outside Boots in the centre of
Warrington.

Winding along the rebuilt high street under shoppers' feet is another
commemorative sculpture, 'The River of Life'. Here a panel for every month of
the year has been set into the pavement, each one devised by local sculptor
Stephen Broadbent in collaboration with a different Warrington primary school.
The emphasis is on celebrating the local environment and on looking forward;
each school's design features a type of tree and names a quality necessary to
build peace.

Woolston county primary school, responsible for 'April', 'hazel' and
'self-control', is currently immersed in another long-term plan to build bridges
between Britain and Ireland and whittle away at the ignorance, fear and
suspicion that surrounds events such as the 1993 bombing - and all within the
limits of the literacy hour.

Woolston is one of six primaries taking part in the latest pilot study devised
by the Warrington Project, a charity set up within six months of the boys'
deaths to organise a constructive response from the community.

Johnathan Ball's uncle, John Donlan, is its full-time co-ordinator. It was clear
to him from the start that the project's main thrust needed to be educational.

A retired manager with a local glass manufacturer, Mr Donlan took on the job of
answering the thousands of letters of condolence the family received after
Johnathan's death, many of them from schoolchildren in Ireland.

'It took me 18 months to reply to everyone. I went into schools to ask some
Warrington children to write back to the children in Ireland, and it struck me
how little was known about Ireland - about the history that had led to this
terrible event and about the everyday lives of the Irish people, who were as
shocked as we were. Teachers had children asking 'What's the lRA?' and 'Why did
they bomb us?', and didn't know what to say to them.' The project aims to build
understanding focusing on under-25s in Britain and Ireland.

Like many of the children taking part in the project's latest Ireland in Schools
scheme, Mr Donlan has Irish roots, although he grew up in Warrington. 'I went on
my first trip to Ireland to visit my grandfather when I was Tim Parry's age, and
I worked in Dublin for a while. We are really very close to Ireland here. We
could have an enriching relationship. Education is the way to achieve that.'

In Britain the project concentrates on introducing Irish studies to the national
curriculum. It also has a Northern Ireland office, which is linked to existing
Education for Mutual Understanding work between Protestant and Catholic
communities in Northern Ireland and the Republic.

The Ireland in Schools education sub-committee is chaired by Patrick Buckland, a
historian and former director of the Institute of Irish studies at the
University of Liverpool. He favours a low-key 'back-burner' approach, producing
course outlines and in-service training materials that slot seamlessly into the
curriculum. 'The idea is not that studying Ireland is a chore, but that it is
interesting and stimulating and will help you get good results,' he says.

For the first five years, the focus has been mainly on history, but citizenship
and drama are included. Now the pilot primary schools are having a crash course
in Irish literature, from retellings of the ancient Ulster cycle legends of the
giant Fin McCoul to the latest contemporary fiction (Siobhan Parkinson,
Ireland's answer to Jacqueline Wilson, has hit Warrington big time).

The project's first annual lecture, held last month, was on children's books.
The guest speaker, the Dublin-based children's literature expert Robert Dunbar
(who ran training seminars for the participating teachers) was mobbed by excited
children as he toured schools, reading from Martin Waddell's picture book Owl
Babies in a broad Ulster accent.

Frank Judge's Year 5 classroom at Woolston primary is covered in artwork based
on 'The Sea Woman', an Irish variation on the mermaid/selkie theme. Now the
class has moved on to poetry and Mr Judge, the school's literacy co-ordinator,
chooses Yeats's 'He Wishes for the Cloths of Heaven' for shared reading on the
day of Robert Dunbar's visit.

'The Sea Woman' is ideal for the literacy strategy requirement to compare myths
and legends from more than one culture, he says. 'There is a rich legacy of
story which the children can explore while still meeting literacy hour
requirements.'

The excited buzz in Mr Judge's classroom has spread all around town. The six
schools are now on their second term of Irish work, which has spread into art
and design, history and geography.

Schools can borrow class sets of books from the Warrington Project. Eileen
Fitzgerald, head of another participating school, St Oswald's RC primary, says
the influx of the best in Irish publishing has generated 'a burst of creative
energy' among teachers and pupils. 'We now have access to wonderful books and
the literacy hour means that we have to think of imaginative ways of using them.
The idea is not to do a token Irish book because we have to or because we're
being 'multicultural', but to use them as a matter of course. Some wonderful
work has been produced as a result.'

St Oswald's has always been a book-laden school. Open-plan infant and junior
reading areas were set-up to coincide with the launch of the literacy hour.

Literacy co-ordinator Helen Lennon's Year 5 pupils have added their hand-made
copies of 'The Children of Lir' to the Irish publications, and covered their
classroom walls in Celtic designs and illustrations for Oscar Wilde's fairy tale
'The Happy Prince'.

Indeed, sometimes Irish literature work means simply identifying as Irish an
already well-loved writer, such as Wilde or Martin Waddell, whose ballad 'Poor
Tom and the Mountains of Mourne' was a literacy hour shared reading text at St
Oswald's. The tale of poor Tom Murphy whose father was hung, brave Nancy Bell,
the villain Ranehan and the Excise Man led to dynamic playwriting exercises.

The class followed its first Irish book, Fin McCoul: the Giant of Knockmany Hill
by Tomi de Paola, back to its roots on the Giant's Causeway. Through the
Warrington Project's Northern Ireland office, St Oswald's now has partner
schools in Derry and Strathfoyle and the Year 5 class spent three days in Derry
last term.

Yvette Blake, literacy co-ordinator and deputy head at Park Road primary, has
also explored partnership. Her school has set up e-mail contact with St
Patrick's school in Blackrock, Co Wicklow. Park Road's Year 3 then called on St
Patrick's for help to find the real island where the Sleeping Giant slept for
100 years in Marie-Louise Fitzpatrick's retelling of the story. 'That generated
real excitement,' said Mrs Blake.

Years 5 and 6 at Park Road and St Patrick's are now comparing the work of
authors with local connections. Both schools have read Alan Garner's The
Weirdstone of Brisingamen and Battle Below Giltspur in the Giltspur trilogy by
Cormac MacRaois, and exchanged reports on visits to Garner country (Alderley
Edge, Cheshire) and MacRaois country (the Wicklow mountains).

Mrs Blake believes that the influx of new material has worked well with the
literacy hour structure. 'The literacy hour has given a focus to my teaching and
children are being given a taste of the wide range of books, which they can then
return to on their own.'

She has also found that the gutsy stories in the Celtic Magic Tales collection
by Liam MacUistin have provided an antidote to the Disney-fied view of fairy
tales that many pupils had at the beginning of the year. Year 5 loved the
'rather bloodthirsty, but very moving' story of Mir and Aideen. 'It has very
powerful language, and its treatment of prophecy tied in with work we had done
on Greek myths. It's strong stuff.'

Her notes in a progress report written last term list the range of emotions the
children discussed after reading the story in three literacy hours. Honour,
betrayal, pride, sorrow and revenge are all there. And, she adds, 'one boy
admitted to having a tear in his eye'. Strong stuff indeed.

An update on all the Warrington Project's Ireland in Schools work is available
on its website, www. warrington. gov. uk/wp/home. htm or from PO Box 282,
Warrington WA1 1NH

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                      Copyright 1999 TSL Education Limited

                              340 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 3, 1999

Guardian Unlimited

BYLINE: ??

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 604 words


Rail anger A judge sparked outrage when he dropped charges against the train
driver and rail company involved in the Southall Rail Crash, in which seven
people died 4 Rogue trader Nick Leeson is expected back in the UK tomorrow after
being released from his Singapore jail cell 5 Nun in the dock A nun who missed
her bus stop because she had fallen asleep, having been up since 5am praying,
was taken to court 6 Napolean hits London The world of West End musicals is
braced for a shake up with three French mega-shows leading the charge 9 Hamilton
accuses Disgraced former Tory minister Neil Hamilton yesterday accused MPs of
behaving like 'poisoned darts ' 13 Gay row Organisers of today's gay Mardi Gras
festival in London were accused of depoliticising the event formerly known as
Pride 14

Dissidents squeezed Slobodan Milosevic tightened the squeeze on his domestic
opponents, after a trial in which a leading critic faces 20 years in prison for
alleged draft dodging during the war 16 Bomb fears Two car bombs, both linked to
neo-nazis, have shattered Sweden and triggered a debate about whether liberal
principles can withstand extremist threats 17 Reichstag groans Discontent is
growing among German MPs as they begin to move into the new Reichstag in Berlin,
seven years after British architect Sir Norman Foster began the pounds 250m job
of restoring the building 18

Hollywood or bust Plans to build what would have been Hollywood's first major
studio since the Depression have been scrapped 24 Rail threat Railtrack faces
new fines of up to pounds 20m unless it improves its performance within a year
24 Comment

David Gray says Britain is culturally American so let's forget about Europe for
a bit Mark Lawson on the great passport horror Jeremy Hardy on Orangemen 20

Leaders Internet politics How long before British business wakes up to the
revolution? Rape figures The law is still failing women as reported rape rises
and the number of convictions falls Gardening tip Chill out, Dr Stefan Buczacki
21 Obituaries

Dennis Brown, crown prince of reggae, aged 42 Edward Dymtryk, film director,
aged 80 22 Sport Wimbledon All the news, results and comment First Test Mike
Selvey reports from Edgbaston on England's collapse Weekend Nastassja Kinski She
grew up in the shadow of a frenzied father and childlike mother. Now she's
turning her back on all the craziness Fashion The return of decent exposure Food
How to picnic in your garden Homes Who needs architects and interior designers
when you can DIY Saturday review Double or nothing Comedy double acts work. Why?
Fear and loathing in LA How they market fear in America The Guardian Profile
David Trimble La dolce Anita the enduring Ekberg Travel Jigging in the park
Glastonbury may be over but there's still plenty of festivals left Rebel yell
Stephen Moss travels to the battlefields of the American civil war Voyages of
discovery What people have bought back from their holidays over the ages Jobs &
Money Who cares wins Making companies listen to complaints Moving house? Who
pays for the breakages, you or the removal men? Rise Happy, happy, happy Admit
it, most of us enjoy our work The guide Read it here first The Sopranos will be
the best thing on TV www.guardian.co.uk Wimbledon final? Weather permitting,
follow the action online www.newsunlimited. co.uk/wimbledon England v New
Zealand ball by ball coverage of the First Test at Edgbaston, online
www.cricketunlimited.co.uk

Guardian Newspapers Ltd, 119 Farringdon Road EC1R 3ER.

Telephone: 0171-278 2332

Fax: 0171-837 2114 / 0171-833 8342

www.guardian.co.uk.


LOAD-DATE: July 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              341 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                  July 8, 1999

Machine gun burst echoed for 15 years;
Yvonne Fletcher How a triumph of secret diplomacy took shape

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 996 words


Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

It took just a few terrifying seconds of machine-gun fire to kill PC Yvonne
Fletcher outside the Libyan People's Bureau in St James's Square, London. But it
has taken 15 years for the echo to die away.

The announcement yesterday by Robin Cook, foreign secretary, that Britain and
Libya are restoring relations marks an end to the story that began on April 17,
1984 a triumph for staying power and secret diplomacy, if not for the 'full
justice' the young policewoman's family said was now finally possible.

Trouble was expected that Tuesday, with 70 Libyan demonstrators chanting slogans
against the regime of Colonel Muammar Gadafy. Several days earlier two students
had been hanged at Tripoli university. But no one predicted what happened at
10.20am when a burst of shooting from a first floor window in the elegant square
felled Miss Fletcher, 25, and injured 11 others, mostly Libyans.

Ashour Shamis, then European head of the opposition National Front for the
Salvation of Libya, watched it happen. 'I was at the head of the demonstration
and saw the policewoman fall just two or three yards from where I was,' he
recalled last night. 'We even saw the window being opened, but it happened so
quickly we didn't see the person's face.'

Col Gadafy already had a bad enough image, but British public opinion was
outraged by the unprovoked shooting. The 22 officials inside the bureau were
allowed to leave after a tense 10-day siege including a police-escorted
excursion to buy 140 portions of fried chicken were taken to Heathrow and flew
back to a heroes' welcome in Tripoli. No one was charged then or later.
Diplomatic immunity

Leon Brittan, then Margaret Thatcher's home secretary, insisted that the police
were unsure of the killer's identity and that the suspects were protected by
diplomatic immunity though not all were. Privately, the government feared
retaliation against 8,000 British citizens and property in Libya if arrests were
made.

It quickly emerged that there had been a severe failure by British intelligence:
early that year Col Gadafy had been gripped by a paranoid fear for his survival
and ordered his revolutionary committees to eliminate his enemies 'stray dogs'.
In March eight bombs exploded at anti-regime targets in London and Manchester,
but surveillance was not increased.

And, fatefully, a telex ordering the London People's Bureau to use violence
against demonstrators was intercepted the day before the shooting but lay still
coded at the GCHQ listening centre in Cheltenham while Miss Fletcher took a
fatal bullet in the back. It also transpired that a Libyan official had warned
that there were guns inside the building.

Like other unsolved crimes, this too was ripe for conspiracy theorists. One
lurid version claimed that the killing could have been a cynical attempt to
bring Britain into line with a US campaign against Libya though it was not until
1986 that President Ronald Reagan persuaded Mrs Thatcher to go along with the
controversial bombing of Tripoli in retaliation for a terrorist attack in
Berlin.

Later, several expert witnesses told the Channel Four Dispatches programme that
the shots were in fact fired from the sixth floor of a building next door in St
James's Square, allegedly being used by US intelligence.

But the official truth was and remains simpler: a Metropolitan police report
submitted in April this year to Jack Straw, the home secretary, confirmed the
findings of the original investigation. The suspected gunmen reportedly include
Abdel-Gader Tuhami, a student said by dissident sources to have been a trained
assassin; Moustafa Mgirbi, a military intelligence officer; and Ali Jalid, the
press officer. Some were said to have been executed once back in Libya, but
there has been no independent confirmation of this.

Little happened for years. The US bombing in 1986, using British bases, did not
help. Nor did the charge, made public in 1991, that Libyan agents were
responsible for murdering 270 people in the 1988 Lockerbie bombing, or the
subsequent UN sanctions imposed to force the suspects to surrender. Mother's
quest

Intermediaries tried and failed to make progress. The Tory MP Teddy Taylor
persuaded Col Gadafy to offer a pounds 250,000 gift to the Police Dependants
Trust, but this was angrily dismissed as 'blood money'.

Queenie Fletcher, Yvonne's mother, took her first trip abroad in 1994 to
confront the colonel. 'Before I went to Libya I thought of Gadafy as quite a
frightening man,' she said afterwards. 'But he seemed quite frightened himself,
and very ordinary. He said how sorry he was about Yvonne, and I said how sorry I
was that he had lost his daughter in the US raid on Tripoli.'

It was the dramatic handover in April this year of the Lockerbie two due to
stand trial under Scottish law in the Netherlands that broke the ice. The first
secret exploratory meeting was in Geneva a week later. Derek Plumbly, director
for the Middle East at the foreign office, held two more sessions with Abdulati
al-Obeidi, Libyan ambassador to Rome and Col Gadafy's special envoy. They
finalised the text of yesterday's statement and closed the deal in London on
Tuesday.

Crucially it was accepted by both the Fletcher family and the Metropolitan
police, resting as a confident Mr Cook told the Commons on Libyan agreement to
accept 'general responsibility' for the actions of those in the bureau and to
'participate in and cooperate with the continuing police investigation and to
accept its outcome'.

But Ashour Shamis was not alone last night in wondering what that commitment
will mean in practice. 'If the British government abandons its original demand
that the perpetrators must be brought to trial then this is a climbdown,' he
said. 'And that's a pity, because it means that political and financial
considerations are being given priority over what some people call justice.'


LOAD-DATE: July 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              342 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 10, 1999, Saturday

ANIMAL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS AND VIVISECTIONISTS MEET FOR TALKS

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 401 words


COLIN BLAKEMORE, Oxford University scientist and bete noire of the animal rights
movement, met some of his most bitter enemies yesterday in a government -led
forum aimed at reconciling different views on vivisection.

Delegates at the meeting, which was held at a secret location in London for
security reasons, included animal scientists, representatives of companies
involved in animal experiments and anti-vivisectionists. It was chaired by the
Home Office minister George Howarth.

The stated aim of the forum was to "encourage open and constructive dialogue and
to identify common ground concerning the use of animals in scientific
procedures".

Mr Howarth told the forum that the Home Office would look at ways of improving
the sharing of data among all interested parties. He also said an audit should
be carried out into current research into alternatives to animal experiments to
ensure that money was being spent efficiently.

Professor Blakemore's appearance at the forum was extraordinary in that for a
decade he has been the public enemy-in-chief of animal rights groups.

As the Waynflete Professor of Physiology at Oxford University, he is one of
Britain's greatest experts on the working of the brain. But he has enraged
vivisectionists with his experiments on kittens and monkeys.

Professor Blakemore, 54, lives under police protection; his children have been
threatened with kidnap and he was the target of a letter bomb in June last year.
Every weekend, groups gather and chant outside his Oxford home and, in January
last year, bricks and bottles were hurled through his windows.

When the anti-vivisectionist Barry Horne went on hunger strike in prison earlier
this year, an extremist group called the Animal Rights Militia threatened that
if he was allowed to starve to death, Professor Blakemore would be assassinated.

Parties represented at yesterday's event included Advocates for Animals, the
British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, the Laboratory Animal Science
Association, the Institute of Animal Technology and the Government's chemical
and biological defence establishment, Porton Down.

Among those addressing the meeting was Jan Creamer, the director of the National
Anti- Vivisection Society, who called for greater freedom of information on
animal experiments. She later described the forum as "very informative and very
promising".

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              343 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            July 10, 1999, Saturday

ANIMAL RIGHTS ACTIVISTS AND VIVISECTIONISTS MEET FOR TALKS

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 401 words


COLIN BLAKEMORE, Oxford University scientist and bete noire of the animal rights
movement, met some of his most bitter enemies yesterday in a government -led
forum aimed at reconciling different views on vivisection.

Delegates at the meeting, which was held at a secret location in London for
security reasons, included animal scientists, representatives of companies
involved in animal experiments and anti-vivisectionists. It was chaired by the
Home Office minister George Howarth.

The stated aim of the forum was to "encourage open and constructive dialogue and
to identify common ground concerning the use of animals in scientific
procedures".

Mr Howarth told the forum that the Home Office would look at ways of improving
the sharing of data among all interested parties. He also said an audit should
be carried out into current research into alternatives to animal experiments to
ensure that money was being spent efficiently.

Professor Blakemore's appearance at the forum was extraordinary in that for a
decade he has been the public enemy-in-chief of animal rights groups.

As the Waynflete Professor of Physiology at Oxford University, he is one of
Britain's greatest experts on the working of the brain. But he has enraged
vivisectionists with his experiments on kittens and monkeys.

Professor Blakemore, 54, lives under police protection; his children have been
threatened with kidnap and he was the target of a letter bomb in June last year.
Every weekend, groups gather and chant outside his Oxford home and, in January
last year, bricks and bottles were hurled through his windows.

When the anti-vivisectionist Barry Horne went on hunger strike in prison earlier
this year, an extremist group called the Animal Rights Militia threatened that
if he was allowed to starve to death, Professor Blakemore would be assassinated.

Parties represented at yesterday's event included Advocates for Animals, the
British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection, the Laboratory Animal Science
Association, the Institute of Animal Technology and the Government's chemical
and biological defence establishment, Porton Down.

Among those addressing the meeting was Jan Creamer, the director of the National
Anti- Vivisection Society, who called for greater freedom of information on
animal experiments. She later described the forum as "very informative and very
promising".

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              344 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 July 12, 1999

Outrage as Glenda pours more planes into M25 of the sky;
BACKDOOR TACTICS USED TO INCREASE AIR TRAFFIC

BYLINE: David Norris

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 683 words


TRANSPORT minister Glenda Jackson was furiously criticised last night for using
backdoor tactics to allow 65,000 more aircraft movements a year to be squeezed
into Britain's overcrowded skies.

She sidestepped what would have been an impassioned Commons debate by activating
what is known as a 'statutory instrument', meaning she had only to inform a
small committee of MPs of her action.

It will mean a huge increase in traffic for the notorious 'Clacton Corridor',
the aviation equivalent of the jam-packed M25.

This horrified MPs who have been warning of dire consequences if the air traffic
control system is not improved to cope with dramatically rising demand.

As long ago as April last year Lib-

eral Democrat transport spokesman Tom Brake said: 'It is only a matter of time
before a mid-air collision occurs in UK airspace. Air travellers' safety is
being jeopardised.

'Aviation experts are predicting a summer of chaos, with travellers facing long
delays because of overstretched air traffic control services.

Heathrow notched up a record 98 takeoffs and landings per hour one day last
month. It is believed even that

level could be exceeded as the holiday period approaches.

The clearance for still more planes to fly into and out of Britain came during a
meeting of the Commons Standing Committee on Delegated Legislation and took many
MP members by surprise.

Miss Jackson announced that landings and takeoffs at London's third airport,
Stansted, would from next year be allowed to increase from an annual 120,000 now
to

185,000. That 50 per cent rise in traffic will be channelled through the Clacton
Corridor used by planes from Northern Europe and the Middle and Far East,
heading either for UK airports or America.

Around a third of the 1.7mil-lion planes which used UK airspace last year flew
in and out via the Clacton Corridor.

Tory MP Bowen Wells, whose Hertford and Stortford constituency covers Stansted,
scathingly criticised the way Miss Jackson pushed the measure through with
'undue haste'. He declared: 'It was a disgraceful use of the statutory
instrument. There has been no proper debate or consultation over this.' What has
added to MPs' alarm is the fact that many of the recent near-miss incidents
involved aircraft emerging from the Clacton Corridor and being held in waiting
'stacks' pending clearance to land at one of the South East airports.

Tory MP David Wilshire has called for reassurances from the Government that
'there will be no knock-on effect that results in a tragedy, or in more people
spending more time flying round over Essex and elsewhere, waiting to land at
Heathrow and Gatwick'.

Miss Jackson was able to use the statutory instrument because the previous Tory
government used powers under the 1986 Airports Act to allow staged increases in
the number of plane movements at Stansted.

Initially, this was fixed at a maximum 78,000 a year, based on the ability of
roads and railways to cope with the numbers of passengers.

Since then, however, a new rail link between London's Liverpool Street and the
Essex airport has opened. In 1996, the plane movement limit was upped to 120,000
a year.

Now, under pressure from the overloaded Heathrow and Gatwick airport operators
to allow some of the strain to be taken by Stansted, Miss Jackson has increased
that level again to 185,000.

The concerns are that, although the road and rail infrastructure may be able to
meet the extra number of passengers, the air traffic control system will face
overloading because of the increase in flights in and out of Stansted.

AN ATTEMPT to steal a Boeing 737 airliner for possible use in a terrorist attack
has led to a review of airports' security. A note referring to Northern Ireland
was reportedly left in the cockpit. The intruder went through all the procedures
for takeoff short of starting the engines before he fled in the incident at
Birmingham Airport five months ago. A spokesman said: 'Investigations are
complete and any action will be reviewed by the Department of Transport.'


LOAD-DATE: July 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              345 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 13, 1999

Fingerprints clue in embassy bombings

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 602 words


Two Egyptians appeared in court yesterday in connection with the bombing last
year of two American embassies in Africa.

Mr Ibrahim Hussein Abdel Hadi Eidarous, 42, and Mr Adel Abdel-Meguid Abdel
-Bary, 39, were both arrested in London on Sunday on United States extradition
warrants.

Bow Street Magistrates' Court was told that the two men conspired with the
international Islamic terrorist, Osama bin Laden, and others to murder American
citizens.

Miss Arvinder Sambi, appearing for the Crown Prosecution Service on behalf of
the US government, said the two men's fingerprints were found on faxes claiming
responsibility for the bombings of the US missions in Kenya and Tanzania on
August 8 last year. More than 220 people died in the atrocities and thousands
more were injured.

Miss Sambi said one fax arrived at the Grapevine fax shop in London at 4.53am.
Another fax was then sent out after the bombings at 7.30am UK time from a post
office in Formosa Street, west London.

Copies of both faxes were subsequently found at the offices of The Advice and
Reform Council, allegedly a front for the terrorist organisation Al Qade -
Arabic for The Leadership - in Beethoven Street, in west Kilburn, London.

Miss Sambi said: "Mr Eidarous's fingerprints were found on the claims of
responsibility and were found prior to the bombings. Mr Bary's fingerprints were
on the fax that was sent."

Mr Eidarous, of Waldo Road, in Harlesden, north-west London, and Mr Bary, of
Randolph Avenue, in Maida Vale, west London, were both remanded in custody for a
week.

Miss Sambi told the court that the two men were involved with Al Quadea, the
international council of bin Laden's well-financed terror group, which was bent
on Jihad - holy war - against the US and the West, partly in revenge for the
Gulf War.

"The council would have discussed and approved any major operations, including
terrorist attacks," she said. "Al Quadea specifically targeted the US for a
number of reasons. They regarded the US as the infidel."

Under the Anglo-American Extradition Treaty of 1976, the US authorities have 60
days from the time of arrest to apply for the transfer of the two men to
American jurisdiction.

Miss Sambi asked for the men to be remanded in custody for 28 days. However,
chief magistrate Graham Parkinson would allow only a week, saying that he wanted
more information about the evidence against them from the US government.

Mr Parkinson said that he was concerned by claims from Mr Eidarous's lawyer, Ms
Gareth Peirce, that her client - released by British immigration officers on
Friday after a 10-month detention - was the subject of a "Kafkaesque" abuse of
power by the US.

Mr Bary's lawyer, Mr Keith Hugo, said that the Crown Prosecution Service's
objection to bail for his client was based on a "cocktail of surmise and
sensationalised hypothesis".

The accused men both appeared unfazed by the seriousness of the allegations
against them. Mr Bary, bearded and portly in a beige suit and open-necked shirt,
smiled broadly when he entered the court. Mr Eidarous was similarly dressed and
also bearded, but remained straight-faced throughout the hearing.

Mr Eidarous was described as a former army officer and Mr Bary as a lawyer who
now helps fellow Egyptian dissidents.

Both men were forced to leave their homeland after allegedly being harassed by
the authorities there.

According to their lawyers, Mr Eidarous lives in the UK with his wife and six
young children.

Mr Bary also lives with his family in Britain. His wife is expecting their sixth
child.

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              346 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                 July 13, 1999

A record in store for Boots

BYLINE: By Mike Matthews

SECTION: Business & Employment, Pg.1

LENGTH: 289 words


BOOTS has officially opened the most expensive store in its history - in the
heart of Manchester's bomb damaged city centre.

Exact costing of its newest Boots The Chemists store has been kept under wraps
but exceeds the previous record - the GBP 8m spent at Britain's biggest retail
development, Bluewater, at Dartford, Kent.

The Manchester store, at 44,000sq ft, is also the biggest of all the Nottingham
company's 1,400 outlets.

The previous store was damaged by the IRA bomb which wrecked Manchester's centre
three years ago. The outrage co-incided with plans by Boots to revamp the
21-year-old store.

The store is on the same site in the Arndale Centre on Market Street and Cross
Street.

Boots chairman, Lord Blyth, said: "This is the largest investment Boots The
Chemists has made in any one store.

"This move comes at a significant time in the history of Manchester's city
centre and represents a substantial commitment by Boots to urban renewal.
Manchester Millennium has been an immensely professional organisation to work
with and in partnership with Manchester City Council it has been possible to
undertake this very demanding project."

Sir Alan Cockshaw, chairman of Manchester Millennium, described Boots as a
'world class company' and said it had made a major contribution to the renewal
of the city's centre.

The new look store provides the latest Boots initiatives, including chiropody,
beauty services and oral health services.

Specialist consultants in different areas of the store provide impartial advice
on key product areas including haircare, cosmetic and beauty advice and dental
information. Boots has an extensive store opening and refurbishment programme
and in 1998-99 opened 81 stores.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              347 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            July 15, 1999, Thursday

ARMS DILEMMA SYMBOLIC OF THIRTY YEARS OF DISAGREEMENT

BYLINE: Suzanne Breen

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 675 words


THE UUP is attracting substantial criticism over its insistence on Provisional
IRA decommissioning. In political circles in Britain and the US, the feeling is
that Glengall Street is being awkward.

Why can't they go with the flow and let Sinn Fein into Government without
getting into a flummox about guns? Leaving aside morality, there are powerful,
pragmatic arguments on both sides of the decommissioning debate.

It has divided Northern Ireland along sectarian lines. Protestants generally
think there must be an arms handover. Catholics generally think the whole matter
has been greatly exaggerated.

Both David Trimble and Gerry Adams have invested considerably in the peace
process. There is strong personal motivation for both men to make it work.

Before 1994 Adams' influence was limited. Now he is a regular visitor to Downing
Street and the White House. He has no intention of returning to the ghetto. His
dress, demeanour and language have changed dramatically over the years.

His party's vote has rocketed in Northern Ireland and is improving rapidly in
the South, too. Sinn Fein has acquired a taste of power and likes it.

Provisional IRA guns have remained silent for two years. Surely that's enough
for unionists, say Sinn Fein leaders. Why rock the boat? The Workers Party -
Official IRA - didn't decommission.

The IRA members who formed Fianna Fail in the 1920s didn't decommission yet
Fianna Fail developed into a completely constitutional party. Why demand
decommissioning now?

Leaving aside so-called punishment attacks, all recent acts of violence in
Northern Ireland have been committed by loyalists. Catholics have been subjected
to dozens of bomb attacks this year without Provisional IRA retaliation.

If the Provos decommission, there will be a major split. Members in south Armagh
and other areas will resign. The dissidents, diminished after the Omagh bomb,
will grow in strength. Unionists should let sleeping dogs lie, warn Sinn Fein.

But there are strong reasons why Trimble can't do that. Decommissioning has
become vital for the unionist community. It's seen as a confidence building
measure.

war is truly over, then why do the Provos need their arms? That's particularly
the case with offensive weapons. Semtex isn't used to protect Catholics under
attack. Hundreds of Provo prisoners have been released so it's time something
was given back in return, according to unionists.

They simply don't trust republicans. Given that the Sinn Fein and Provisional
IRA leadership lies constantly to its own people, it's unsurprising unionists
think they will lie to them too.

Sinn Fein spokesmen are masters of Jesuitical language. No wonder the UUP wants
to hear from P O'Neill and not G Adams. Sinn Fein has said it believed it
"could" persuade the Provos to decommission in future.

But there's nothing to stop Adams saying at a later date, "well, I tried, but
they wouldn't listen". Trimble is facing international criticism now.

Imagine the reaction when the Executive is formed and everything is running
smoothly but there's no decommissioning and the UUP tries to expel Sinn Fein? It
would be condemned across the globe.

As with Adams, the peace process has brought Trimble many personal advantages.
He undoubtedly enjoys being First Minister, receiving Nobel Peace prizes, and
mixing with the powerful. It sure beats being an academic lawyer and a humble
MP.

However, he can't bring his party somewhere it doesn't want to go. He would be
unelectable as an MP and Assembly member.

The whole decommissioning debate is symbolic of a peace process where neither
side agrees on the reasons for the 30-year conflict.

Unionists believe the Provos waged a terrorist campaign to undermine democracy.
Republicans say they were freedom fighters against an artificial state.

There might eventually be a deal on decommissioning. There will never be a
shared analysis of what the troubles was all about. Suzanne Breen is

a journalist with

the Irish Times

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              348 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             July 19, 1999, Monday

ALL ARTS AND PARTS: GALLERY THE WAY TO SEIZE THE DAY

BYLINE: Ian Hill

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1028 words


WHILST Arts Council Chair Brian Walker and National Museums of Ulster Director
Michael Houlihan take up Arts Council Chief Executive Brian Ferran's plea for a
National Gallery for Northern Ireland at the opening of every envelope, time and
opportunity passes. The beautiful Crumlin Road Courthouse has gone to developers
for a single pounds 1 and a promise, the Corn Exchange on Victoria Street is
lost too.

While the City Council will no doubt engage a consultant to check if Belfast
needs such an institution, Liverpool's burgers, with their own excellent Walker
Art Gallery and a Liverpool Tate already under their belt, are not resting on
their laurels.

Having seen how the new Guggenheim Museum has brought grimy post-industrial
Bilbao, on Spain's north Atlantic coastline, international critical and tourism
acclaim, the Scousers are putting together a pounds 60m package to house further
pictures from Old Solomon R Guggenheim's priceless collection.

With a mix of Lottery, regional, national and EU Disadvantaged Regions funding
Liverpool's Councillors argue their proposition, on their World Heritage Site
Waterfront, will cost the Guggenheim Foundation nothing.

A few years ago getting to Bilbao was a hassle. Now airlines from around Europe
lobby for slots at its airport, hotels are full year round, and all due to Frank
Gehry's magnificent startling building, the Guggenheim Bilbao with its 165ft
high atrium and 450ft long boat-shaped gallery, as famous as Sydney's Opera
House.

Now's the time says The Diary, whilst Belfast has the world's attention and
sympathies. Say five years after real peace comes, who'll remember us then?
Carpe Diem!

The late FE McWilliam, Banbridge born, internationally-acclaimed sculptor had
little fame at home till 1973 with his expressionist yet figurative sculptural
bronzes of the Women of Belfast. Depicting female victims of the IRA's terror
bombs, they gathered critical praise showing in Dublin and London.

In a bizarre oversight, the Northern Ireland Tourist Board put a number of these
works on display on the opening of its new Dublin office, till the Diary, then
wearing a Tourist Board Director's hat, spotted them and suggested their subject
matter might not help the Province's image in a city which had suffered from
Loyalist paramilitary bombs itself.

McWilliam's sculpture Princess Macha, designed for Londonderry's Altnagelvin
Hospital caused controversy at the time of its commission, bringing the artist,
like the prophet, little honour in his home country.

But it's McWilliam's long-forgotten sojourn amongst Britain's surrealists which
catches the Diary's eye this week. In 1938, fed up with Chamberlain's
appeasement, the sculptor made a series of four stunning masks of the infamous
paper-waver, to be used on anti-Chamberlain marches, as Michael Remy's admirable
new book, Surrealism in Britain reminds us. It's easy to think Colin Middleton
was Ulster's only surrealist artist.

Fans of gothic American novelist Edgar Allan Poe, like President Bill Clinton
and a dozen more US Presidents, a man of Ulster descent, will be gathering
together this year to mark the 150th anniversary of the old alcoholic's death.

An inventor of detective story and psychodrama, Poe is held in high esteem by
those who trace the history of science fiction. But currently his fame is found
through cult movies - most starring that old Hammer hammer-up Vincent Price.

The Black Cat is the most re-made horror flick of all time and who, amongst
genre buffs, can forget one version or another of The Fall of the House of
Usher, The Pit and The Pendulum, The Raven, and The Masque of the Red Death?

Bela Lugosi and Boris Karloff were early franchisees, but literary critics tut
-tut at the schlock blood and cleavage production values. Roger Corman's
partnership with Price fell short too of academia's approval. Nevertheless Roger
Vadim, Frederico Fellini and Louis Malle - and George Romero - have reworked his
material for film, and here Paddy Scully ventured an adaptation for the stage.

Perhaps there's a sesquicentennial season for the QFT in it. Or a Karl
Wallace/Paul Boyd/Paddy Scully production for the Crescent Arts Centre's
morgue-cold crypt-like space during the Festival at Queens?

Rosetta to the people of South Belfast is a suburban enclave east of the
Ravenhill Road. But its origins lie in the discovery of the Rosetta Stone, found
on Napoleon Bonaparte's Egyptian expedition, on the banks of the Nile.

Its hieroglyphics, recording an official pronouncement from Ptolemy's reign was
the first of such scripts to be translated, ice they were repeated in Greek on
the same surface.

If you're in London over the summer you can see the original in a new exhibition
in the British Museum, marking the bicentenary of its discovery. Though the
French scholar Jean-Francois CHampillon was first to crack the code first, the
later contributions of Edward Hincks (1792-1866), Church of Ireland Rector of
Killyleagh County Down and at the forefront of cuneiform deciphering is not to
be dismissed.

Edward's brother Francis became Prime Minister of Canada in 1851. Their father
Thomas, a Presbyterian minister, was Professor of Oriental languages at Inst.

Ulster's theatre goers who flock to West End musicals there or here when they
later play Grand Opera House or Waterfront should note that next year the scene
shifts from Yancophone to Francophone.

Lined up already are 13 new shows with the French in the vanguard with Napoleon,
Lautrec and Notre Dame de Paris.

The first focuses on the pocket sized Corsican and his Josephine, the second on
the short, absinthe-drinking, brothel-going minor aristo, painter of the louche
and the "jolie laide".

The third one tells of Victor Hugo's loverlorn hunchback bell-ringer and the
unattainable dancing girl Esmeralda. Remember the string of movie paintings?
Doomed Lon Chaney as Quasimodo, Patsy Ruth Miller as Esmeralda? Tortured Charles
Laughton and Maureen O'Hara? Embarrassing Anthony Quinn and Gina Lollobrigida?
Subtle Anthony Hopkins and Lesley-Anne Down? Which name rings a bell, ho ho?

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE SNAKE: Richard Serra's sculpture which dominates The Fish Room of
the; Guggenheim museum

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              349 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        July 20, 1999, Tuesday Edition 1

Ulster agreement Bid to resume talks for peace - Senator joins attempts to keep
alive

BYLINE:  By Gavin Cordon

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 409 words


   A new round of talks to restart the stalled Northern Ireland peace process
will be held in London today.

Tony Blair and his Irish counterpart Bertie Ahern were due to meet, along with
ex-US senator George Mitchell - who chaired the talks leading to last year's
Good Friday agreement - in an attempt to keep the faltering process alive.

Encounter

Mr Mitchell, who is trusted by all the Northern Ireland parties - will be at
today's meeting in Downing Street to discuss his role while the Governments
review the process.

Ahead of that meeting Mr Ahern is to have surprise talks with Northern Ireland
First Minister and Ulster Unionist Party leader David Trimble.

The Irish premier's encounter with Mr Trimble will be the first since last
Thursday's developments in Belfast, when the Ulster Unionists refused to share
power with Sinn Fein until the IRA started to give up its guns.

Mr Ahern has already held talks with Sinn Fein leader Gerry Adams.

The Stormont meeting, which was supposed to inaugurate a new era of devolved
government, broke up amid scenes of farce and bitter recrimination with Seamus
Mallon of the nationalist SDLP resigning in disgust as deputy first minister
designate.

Since then, relations between Dublin and the Unionists have become frostier
because of remarks by Mr Ahern on Sunday about the prospects of the May 2000
deadline for decommissioning IRA and other terrorist arms not being met.
Following today's meeting in Downing Street, Northern Ireland Secretary Mo
Mowlam was due to fly to the United States for a three-day visit to brief senior
figures in the American administration about the current state of play in the
process.

There has been intense speculation that her visit could be her last act as
Northern Ireland Secretary, with Mr Blair widely reported to be lining her up
for a move.

Attack

Mr Trimble - who has not had a face-to-face meeting with her for more than a
year - has made no secret of the fact that he has no confidence in her and wants
her to go.

A mother of three children today accused loyalists of targeting her family in a
petrol-bomb attack on her north Belfast home. Community worker Anna Nee and her
children were watching TV when two masked men threw two petrol bombs. One of the
bombs exploded causing scorch damage. No-one was injured. She claimed she was
targeted because she featured in a report about sectarian strife in a newspaper
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              350 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 22, 1999

Britain to boost chemical defences

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 585 words


A new package of measures to cope with attacks by chemical and biological
weapons was unveiled by the Government yesterday.

Defence Secretary George Robertson said £65m would be spent on developing new
detection techniques and protective equipment for British troops to cope with an
attack by the weapons of mass destruction.

Mr Robertson said the assessment of the risk of a terrorist attack on the UK
with chemical or biological weapons was low.

But he added: "We remain cautious and vigilant. If we assess there was a threat,
then clearly all of that equipment is available and would be deployed dependent
on the threat."

Under the Government plans, British forces will be equipped with more chemical
agent detectors and integrated biological defence systems.

In addition, a new joint Army-RAF nuclear, biological and chemical regiment will
be deployed on a state of high readiness.

There will also be a central unit within the Ministry of Defence coordinating
the work necessary to assess the risk to forces and develop counter -strategies.

Launching the Government's strategy document, Mr Robertson said the main threat
still came from Saddam Hussein's "relentless ambition" to acquire the weapons.

He said: "All of us should be concerned that Saddam Hussein's Iraq, and a number
of other countries, either possess or could quickly produce biological and
chemical weapons.

"Saddam has already used such weapons - not just against his neighbours, but
against his own people.

"There is now a clear international consensus that the possession of these
horrifying weapons is wrong.

"Our diplomatic efforts will continue to try to rid the world of them. For as
long as these weapons remain a threat, however, we must be prepared to defend
against them and our forces must have the equipment, training and preparation
they need to protect themselves." He added: "No potential aggressor - least of
all Saddam - should think that by threatening to use these terrible weapons, he
will deter the Government from taking action it believes to be right - he will
not."

He added: "Horrifying they are, deadly they certainly are, but we are able to
deal with them."

Of the £65m to be spent, around half will go on new equipment and half will be
spent on new running the new regiment, based at Honington, Suffolk.

According to the Government's document, biological agents can be easily
manufactured.

It said 10 billion infectious doses of anthrax can be developed within a week
using a 100-litre fermenter. The bacteria can be delivered from bombs, missiles
and "portable devices" which can be placed in "clandestine areas".

Anthrax has an incubation period for up to six days and then leads to
respiratory problems, shock and usually death with 36 hours.

The document says if Iraq, which has tried in the past to develop anthrax as a
weapon, bought missiles from North Korea it could potentially launch attacks on
targets 2000 miles away - which would include Italy and Greece.

In 1995 terrorists used nerve gas to attack the Tokyo underground train system,
killing eight people and injuring more than 4000.

Saddam Hussein used chemical weapons in 1988 in the Halabja area of Iraq,
killing hundreds and injuring thousands.

The Government has already been building up stocks of vaccines against chemical
weapons.

In June 1998 Britain and the United States agreed to co-operate closely in the
development of new medical and other counter-measures.

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              351 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                             July 26, 1999, Monday

FAMILIES' FRUSTRATION AS FIVE FACE YEMENI DELAY

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 623 words


The families of five Birmingham men facing terrorist charges in the Yemen
yesterday spoke of their frustration at the delay in reaching a verdict.

A court in the southern Yemeni city of Aden was due to pass a verdict yesterday,
but on Friday it was postponed without notice until August 9.

But the situation was thrown into confusion yesterday morning when lawyers
acting for the men in Britain were told a verdict may have been passed as
originally planned.

Lawyers now believe the Yemeni court could reach a verdict and sentence the men,
including three other Britons, at any time in the next two weeks.

They face sentences of up to ten years in prison if found guilty of plotting
terrorist atrocities.

Mr Rashid Butt, the brother of one of the accused, Birmingham man Shahid Butt
(33), said: "I am really worried why it has not come out today.

"We are worried that even though it has been postponed until August 9, they may
give the verdict during this time.

"I do fear for them all the time, because nothing is controlled. We have knocked
on a lot of doors, but not got any answers."

Sheikh Tariq Abdullah, a member of the defence team in the Yemen, flew to
Britain to speak to the families in anticipation of a verdict.

Visiting Birmingham yesterday he said few judgments in the Yemen were ever
delivered when announced.

"It is no surprise to see this has happened," he said.

But he believed that in this case, the judgment would not now be given until
August 9.

"There is so much pressure and members of the press will be there so the
Government, I feel, feels quite embarrassed about it and will want to finish
it," he said.

"There's no second opinion that the trial has not been fair. All those of a
political nature have the same fate."

Sheikh Abdullah said torture was a "normal" method used by police when arresting
suspects, even innocent members of the public.

He said the accused men continued to express their frustration and resentment
with the delay in the case, but they knew it was a common occurrence in the
country.

And he said he hoped Foreign Secretary Mr Robin Cook had taken the opportunity
to raise the matter with the Yemeni representative at King Hassan's funeral in
Morocco yesterday.

Sheikh Abdullah said the Government's views would not be ignored by the Yemeni
authorities.

"Western countries are donor countries to the Yemen and are very important to
the Yemeni government," he said.

"If there is pressure and that pressure is the type which will affect the Yemeni
government, then they will submit."

The lawyer acting on behalf of the men in Britain, Ms Natalia Garcia, said they
were continuing to apply pressure on the Government to intervene in the trial.

She said the Prime Minister had written to the Yemeni Prime Minister, Ali
Abdullah Selah, requesting an independent medical examination of the men.

But she said they wanted Mr Blair to raise concerns about the unfairness of the
trial with the Yemeni authorities and ask them to "sort it out".

Malik Nassar Harhra (26) and Shahid Butt, both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein
(25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), all deny associating with
armed groups, plotting murder and destruction, and illegal possession of
weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist
atrocities in the Yemen.

They were charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), of
London, who admitted one charge of forming an armed group, but denied charges of
weapons possession.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              352 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            July 28, 1999, Wednesday

EUROPE PLEA OVER TERROR CASE

BYLINE: Charisse Ede

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 366 words


The families of five Birmingham men charged with terrorism in the Yemen are
appealing to the European Court to force the British Government to intervene in
the trial.

The move follows a failed case in the Court of Appeal by the sister of Shahid
Butt, one of the accused Birmingham men, earlier this month for an order to
force the Government to contact the Yemeni authorities.

The court refused an application by Ms Butt to seek judicial review and said
that the courts should not interfere in the conduct of foreign relations.

Ms Natalia Garcia, the lawyer acting on behalf of the men in Britain, said going
to the European Court was their next avenue of appeal.

She said a petition would be lodged in the next ten days and the court must rule
whether the case is admissible.

If it goes ahead, Ms Garcia said a ruling would not be made until after the
Yemeni authorities gave their verdict on the men, which is due on August 9.

She said the families believed the Government was in breach of its obligations
under the European Convention on Human Rights by refusing to become involved in
the trial.

She said the European Court could rule whether the Appeal Court was right in
deciding that any intervention in the Yemeni case was a matter of foreign policy
and therefore it could not get involved.

"We believe it is simply reminding another country of its legal obligations,"
she said.

"Our Government is bound by the European Convention on Human Rights and has
responsibility to do whatever it can within reason."

Malik Nassar Harhra (26), Shahid Butt (33), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, along with Mohsin Ghalain (18), of London, Ghulam Hussein
(25), from Luton, and Frenchman James Louvres (30), all deny associating with
armed groups, plotting murder and destruction, and illegal possession of
weapons.

Two other Birmingham men, Shazad Nabi (20) and his cousin Ayaz Hussain (26),
both of Bordesley Green, have pleaded not guilty to plotting terrorist
atrocities in the Yemen. They were charged with Algerian Ali Mohsen, and
Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17), of London, who denied forming an armed group and
weapons possession.

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              353 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 July 28, 1999

Security sources reject threat of IRA renegades

BYLINE: Ian Bruce

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 600 words


THE chance of a renegade IRA bombing campaign on mainland Britain to disrupt
peace negotiations in Northern Ireland is negligible, security sources said last
night, writes Ian Bruce, Geopolitics Editor.

Claims that the Continuity IRA planned a renewed offensive were dismissed as
nonsense after an undercover operation involving Scotland Yard, the FBI and the
Irish Republic's Garda announced the interception of eight packages mailed from
the US containing firearms and ammunition destined for Northern Ireland.

Two men and a woman appeared in court yesterday in Florida charged with posting
illegal firearms abroad without a licence and conspiracy. The packages they
tried to send were labelled as toys, computer components, stereo equipment, and
baby clothing.

The heaviest calibre weapon was a .357 Magnum handgun, capable of creating
mayhem at close range but entirely useless in a guerrilla war beyond 20 yards'
range.

The three, Siobhan Browne and Anthony Smyth of Weston, Florida, and Connor
Anthony Claxton, an Irish citizen living at a local motel, were arrested and
held without bail under the US Arms Export Control Act.

An arrest affidavit said the group had bought 26 guns from a dealer and were
planning to buy machine-guns, silencers and Israeli machine-pistols.

The finale of the transatlantic operation was mounted by the FBI's Joint
Terrorist Task Force.

A fourth suspect, identified as Martin Mullen, was later arrested in
Philadelphia.

Three people were arrested in the west of Ireland last night. Two women and a
man were detained under Section 30 of the Offences Against The State Act in
Galway City, following the discovery of a number of handguns, police said.

The Provisional IRA has an arsenal of between 650 and 700 Kalashnikov assault
rifles scattered in caches throughout the Irish Republic and Ulster. It also has
a number of heavy machine-guns, anti-tank rocket launchers, and a handful of
anti-aircraft missiles of Soviet design.

Most were supplied by Libya's Colonel Gaddafi as a means of fomenting trouble in
the West.

The mainstream PIRA, which refuses to decommission its arsenal, no longer needs
the kind of penny-packet supplies from the US which sustained its operations
through the late 1970s and 1980s.

It is commonly accepted that the PIRA's former quartermaster heads up the main
breakaway IRA faction, the self-styled Real IRA. Weapons under his control have
been moved to safer locations or are under guard by PIRA volunteers opposed to
any disruption of Sinn Fein's political initiative.

The Provisionals have more guns than people who know how to use them. But
breakaway elements, numbering a few dozen at most, have the technical expertise
to cause damage beyond their numbers.

In the 1970s, the IRA took advantage of lax US gun laws to purchase arms
directly in small numbers. The US Army's M16 Armalite assault rifle is still
sold in a single-shot sporting version which can be easily converted to a
military weapon.

Factions trying to buy arms in the US are not regarded as a serious threat. With
the collapse of the Soviet Union and its Warsaw Pact allies, weapons are more
readily available in Eastern Europe.

A security source said last night: "Up to 50% of the UK's undercover resources
are devoted to foiling the IRA now that the Soviet threat is gone. But it begs
the question, in these days of easy access, why any Irish republican group would
go to the trouble of securing arms from America.

"It's a long shortcut when an AK can be bought on the open market in Kosovo or
Bosnia."

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 3, 1999

Army stretched to limit, top general warns

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 151 words


Britain's commitment to global peace-keeping has to be reduced, or else
resources risked being stretched too thin, the army's top general said last
night.

In an interview in today's Times newspaper, Sir Roger Wheeler, chief of the
general staff, indicated that Britain's readiness to cope risked being
compromised by the army - total strength, 96,000 - being dispersed in Kosovo and
Bosnia. MoD statistics show that nearly 50% was commit ted to operations - eight
months ago it was 28%.

Sir Roger said that with 4,500 soldiers in Bosnia and nearly 10,000 in Kosovo
the army 'simply cannot go on at that rate and have soldiers available to do
other things'.

He also pointed out that the precarious peace in Northern Ireland meant the army
had to be wary of terrorist attacks. 'While the terrorists retain their
capability - and there's no decommissioning - we have to do the same.'


LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              355 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           August 4, 1999, Wednesday

SURVIVORS' STRENGTH;
 FEMALE TIMES: ONE EAR TO THE GROUND

BYLINE: Patrick Ryans

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 618 words


Last week Colorado Governor Bill Owens paid a visit to Omagh during a trade
mission to Britain and Ireland.

There he was greeted by various relatives of the victims of the bomb which
devastated the town on August 15 last year.

The Governor was clearly moved by the meeting and the warm welcome he received
from council chairman Alan Rainey and the people of Omagh.

Owens was moved because he was there to share in the grief of Omagh by showing
solidarity from a state which only three months ago saw the Columbine High
School massacre in Littleton which left 12 students dead.

He was moved by the resilience of the relatives and victims of the Omagh bomb
and he was moved by the sheer weight of coming this close to the aftermath of a
tragedy which rocked the world.

Chairman Alan Rainey who is one of the most eloquent and statesmanlike
councillors in Northern Ireland was pleased to meet the Governor. As one
representative to another where shared tragedies form some kind of bond, the two
men paused at one point during a tree-planting ceremony to mark the Governor's
visit.

Just for a moment both men appeared uncertain as to whether or not the blaze of
publicity directed at them was welcome.

After all, the visit would not have taken place had two enormous horrors not
befallen both Omagh and Littleton. But Alan Rainey is a man of enormous
diplomacy and sensitivity and it was quickly made clear that the reason the
Governor was here was to hand over $ 50,000 to the Omagh Fund on behalf of the
US-based Ireland fund and to show respect to the survivors.

On the same day Governor Bill Owens was in Omagh, another horrific shooting took
place in Atlanta Georgia and at the last count, 12 people were dead.

While we recovered from the shock of the news of this new nightmare I couldn't
help but think how quickly we forget and how important to the survivors of such
dark events it is that we do not forget.

Who remembers the ten shot dead in Hungerford? Or the children of Dunblane? Or
Lockerbie? Some are more memorable than others but that's largely because of
continued press interest in ensuing court cases.

The tendency, however, is to put these quickly to the back of our collective
minds.

But now recognition of the years of pain and economic hardship which are
inflicted on the bereaved, relatives and survivors of the countless acts of
terror inflicted on people in Northern Ireland, England and beyond by
paramilitaries is being established and formalised.

Families who lost a bread-winner need assistance not only to get over the fact
that a family member has been killed or maimed but also to generate some income
to survive.

Some survivors have been physically and mentally deeply scarred and require very
different assistance.

But when one considers that the Northern Ireland Memorial Fund whose new mission
is to establish some form of assistance for victims and survivors, says there
are more than 40,000 such casualties in Northern Ireland and elsewhere, then the
scale of the problem begins to be understood.

We should welcome all efforts to keep these horrors firmly in mind.

The first anniversary of the Omagh bomb is just over a week away. We should have
something to make sure we remember Omagh and all the other atrocities Northern
Ireland people have been subjected to - and never forget their pain.

Because their survival and ability to return to some form of normality after
suffering the loss of family or having been scarred, is a sign of
reconciliation. And if people who have suffered so much can continue to live
life as best they can, then they are an example to the rest of us to reconcile
our differences.

LOAD-DATE: August 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SURVIVORS: Omagh bomb victims Donna Marie Keyes and Gary McGillion
after their wedding in Omagh. Both were caught up in the explosion which killed
29 people

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              356 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 6, 1999, Friday

TERRORISM FEARS OVER PEACE DELAY

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly Mail Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 27

LENGTH: 317 words


A BIRMINGHAM MP today warned that Britain faced a new wave of terrorism unless
the Ulster peace process was urgently kick-started.

Hall Green MP Steve McCabe, who is a member of the highly influential Commons
Northern Ireland Committee, said the chance for peace was in danger of slipping
away as Republican and Unionist moderates "lost control" of the situation.

Mr McCabe said: "I believe that both Loyalist and Sinn Fein people involved in
the talks are sincere but I am not sure that they will continue to control
events. If this situation is prolonged then someone is going to set off another
bomb.

"It is palpably obvious that people on the Loyalist and Nationalist side are
desperate for a return to violence. The longer we allow a vacuum to exist the
greater the likelihood that they will fill it."

Mr McCabe said he hoped this month's first anniversary of the Omagh bombing, in
which Republican splinter group the Real IRA killed 29 people, would help
breathe new life into the peace process.

The Labour MP is dismayed that the chance for peace was allowed to ebb away last
month when Unionists refused to allow the proposed new power-sharing executive
to be set up ahead of an IRA weapons hand-over.

Premier Tony Blair and the Irish Government called on Unionists to seize the
moment to test IRA assurances they would start decommissioning "within days" of
the executive being created.

Mr McCabe said: "I would like to see the IRA more forthcoming on decommissioning
and hand over semtex because of what it is capable of doing.

"But we have to face the reality that guns handed in one week can quite easily
be replaced in a few weeks' time. Setting up the executive would be the best way
to secure the peace process."

The Birmingham MP's comments come as security experts warn that the two-year
-old Provisional IRA ceasefire is coming under extreme strain.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: McCABE: Concern

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              357 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 6, 1999

Sudan lets UN check claims of chemical war

BYLINE: Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 569 words


Ian Black Diplomatic Editor

Sudan is ready for any 'impartial' investigation into allegations that it used
chemical or biological weapons in its war against southern rebels, the
government said yesterday.

As Khartoum announced a two-month ceasefire - swiftly rejected as a 'trick" by
the Sudan People's Liberation Army - UN inspectors were heading for two towns in
Western Equatoria province where the Sudanese air force is alleged to have
dropped chemical or biological bombs on July 23.

'Sudan is ready to receive any impartial and credible quarter to investigate
this (matter),' the foreign minister, Mustafa Osman Ismail, was quoted as saying
by the official al-Anba daily.

Claims about the use of unspecified weapons were made earlier this week by the
SPLA and Norwegian People's Aid. The World Food Programme, helping feed millions
of Sudanese hit by the 16-year civil war, has also said it is taking the charges
very seriously.

British diplomats said they were 'very concerned" by the allegations, though the
evidence was so far only 'circumstantial'. The foreign office said it backed an
investigation, especially in the light of Sudan's recent accession to the
Chemical Weapons Convention.

Britain and Sudan fully restored their diplomatic relations last month after a
break caused by Tony Blair's support for the United States missile strike
against a Khartoum pharmaceutical factory in retaliation for bombing attacks on
the American embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

The US, which has put Sudan on a list of states accused of supporting terrorism,
claims the government is developing chemical weapons, although no evidence of
production was found at the al-Shifa plant, hit by a cruise missile last August.

Al-Anba said Mr Ismail reiterated the government's denial that it had ever used
non-conventional weapons. On Wednesday the Sudanese army complained that 'hidden
agendas' were behind the UN investigation.

The SPLA is leading a fight against Sudan's Muslim-dominated central government
for autonomy and a greater share in the country's wealth for the south, where
people are predominantly Christian or animists. More than 1.9m people have been
killed in fighting and famines since the war began in 1983.

The SPLA had claimed that following the bombing of Lainya and Kaaya, near the
borders with Kenya and Congo, people vomited blood, pregnant women aborted and
animals died in large numbers.

Earlier this week the US expressed alarm at the deteriorating humanitarian
situation in the western Upper Nile and urged the Sudanese authorities to honour
a commitment from May last year to allow free and unhindered access to
vulnerable populations.

The government said it was declaring a two-month 'comprehensive" ceasefire,
beginning last night, because it was concerned about human suffering in the war
zones.

But an SPLA spokesman, Samson Kwaje, said: 'We are not interested in a
comprehensive ceasefire. We are interested in a humanitarian ceasefire. It is
just a trick so that they can go and finish us in the east.'

Mr Kwaje said the rebels had already declared a ceasefire in Bahr al-Ghazal
province and in the western and central Upper Nile regions to help aid workers
deliver humanitarian relief.

That ceasefire, first agreed with the government last year, in effect broke down
last month during peace talks in the Kenyan capital Nairobi.


LOAD-DATE: August 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              358 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                 August 6, 1999

Nato as the new colonial power?

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 990 words


WITH the appointment of George Robertson to the post of Secretary-General of
Nato, the organisation has officially moved from its initial role as a defensive
organisation to an offensive one. This has happened because Nato action in
Kosovo breached the principles of the sovereignty of the states and the statutes
of the United Nations. The USA will still have the major say in Nato
deliberations but it will now be able to lay the blame on the European members
of Nato should future actions go awry.

It is interesting to note that Nato now has jurisdiction in two separate
"states" in an originally unitary Yugoslavia, both of which will, by necessity,
be Nato protectorates. The question must be asked as to how long this state of
affairs will continue for it is worth noting that, four years after the Dayton
accord for Bosnia, there is still no evidence of ethnic rapport. Is Nato about
to become the new "colonial" power?

Ian F M Saint-Yves,

"Dunvegan", School Brae,

Whiting Bay, Isle of Arran. August 4.

AUGUST 4 was the anniversary of Britain's entry into the First World War, 1914
-1918. Mentioned by none. "Lest ye forget!" The war started when Serbia, after
the assassination of an Archduke in Sarajevo, refused a humiliating ultimatum by
Austria, who then invaded, and the rest all followed. She was on our, and
Russia's, side.

In 1941, she again refused to give in to Hitler, was invaded, and lost over
500,000 people, massacred by the Catholic Croats over 1941 to 1944. The Croats
killed off lots of Jews too. The Serbs are Orthodox Christians. Both the Croats
and the Muslim Kosovars had Nazi SS divisions, and became integral parts of
Hitler's empire. The Croat leader, Pavolic, escaped, like so many Nazis, via the
Vatican.

In 1995, 40 years later, the Croats ethnically cleansed and totally cleared out
300,000 Serbs from the province of Krajina. Some Serb refugees went to Kosovo.

This year, they agreed to an international body, under the UN, going into
Kosovo, but Nato went it alone, disregarding and humiliating Russia, and
attacked a country outwith its territory without international approval. Serbia
was supposed to give in within days to "the overwhelming power of Nato". However
horrific the killing before, it was markedly intensified under the bombing, and
those intended to be protected were vastly worse off. There was no Plan B.

The ineffectual results were shown when the fighting stopped, when only three
destroyed tanks were left in Kosovo, but hundreds left in good order. So much
for the RAF and the USA and our cruise missiles, at £750,000 each. The Serbs
gave in when Russia deserted them, plus the effects of the massive terror
bombing of civilian targets in Serbia proper. I was struck by the utter absence
of moral, let alone Christian, objections to the unrelenting attacks on Easter
Monday, ours, and again, 10 days later, on their Easter Monday.

The complete misjudgments, military and political, and the disaster of the huge
incurred human and financial costs, do not reflect too well on our new Nato
Secretary-General. Only now are the marked material deficiencies of our armed
forces coming to light. In no way can I excuse the Serb actions, but all the
faults were not on one side in the context of the Balkans.

Emeritus Professor Gemmell Morgan,

8 Eaglesham Road, Newton Mearns.

August 5.

IAN Bruce, your Geopolitics Editor, is entirely correct today when he writes
that "Blair and Robertson had begun to believe their own spin-doctored
propaganda" regarding the war against Yugoslavia, and he is also correct that at
the end of the day it was finally only Russian intervention that caused
Milosevic to capitulate.

The main outcome of the war in the Balkans has been the devastation of the
economy of much of central Europe, with the Sarajevo Summit only confirming that
the nations of Nato are not prepared to spend even a fraction of the cost of
causing havoc in undoing its consequences.

There are other both more insidious and invidious consequences, as for example
the announcement by the Russian Government last week that as a consequence of
Kosovo it is increasing military spending from 2.8% to 3.5% of its GDP.

The highly influential China Daily had a feature article on August 4 entitled
Kosovo role shows British ambition, in which the writer stated, "Blair and the
British Labour Party played a special role in the Kosovo crisis. They worked as
the hawkish ally of the United States and even the leading player in certain
areas". The principal British hawk was of course the man now appointed to be
Secretary-General of Nato.

The electors of Hamilton and Falkirk have an impending quite unique opportunity
to reject the current massive push of New Labour to re-establish British
"greatness" throughout the world regardless of the threat to international peace
and security that will be involved. Imperialism played no role in the history of
independent Scotland, and if ever there was a historical moment to re-emphasise
this principle is is now.

Alan Clayton,

1 Mid Letters, Strathlachlan, Strachur.

August 5.

THE appointment of George Robertson, our Defence Secretary, as the new
Secretary-General of Nato is most welcome news.

The fact that Mr Robertson was nominated by our Prime Minister and supported by
President Clinton, President Chirac, and all major Nato governments is a
testimony to his ability. The glowing and warm tribute given by the most
prominent General Michael Jackson and Sir Charles Guthrie speaks about the
qualities and courage of the man every Scot should be proud of.

I am sure he will bring credit not only to the position which is becoming
extremely important in the post-cold-war era but to millions of Europeans who
have watched him with admiration and affection over the Kosovo conflict in
recent times.

Ali Syed,

38 Campsie Drive, Bearsden. August 5.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              359 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             August 9, 1999, Monday

INLA TELLS POLITICAL WING THAT WAR IS OVER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 564 words


THE INLA has become the first paramilitary group in Northern Ireland to declare
its war is over.

The republican terror group, which came to prominence in 1979 when it killed
Conservative MP Airey Neave in a car bomb in the House of Commons car park, has
told its political wing, the Irish Republican Socialist Party, it has no reason
to continue its armed campaign, The Sunday Times reported.

The newspaper quoted a source described as a senior IRSP member as saying: "The
INLA have assured us that as far as they are concerned the war is over and they
see no further basis for armed struggle.

"There is no political or moral argument to justify a resumption of the
campaign," the source continued.

The group is also reported to have rejected moves by hardline republican groups
the Continuity IRA and the Real IRA - the latter carried out the Omagh bombing -
to include it in a new terror pact.

Security sources believe the two dissident groups had planned to join forces
with the INLA to wage a bombing campaign on mainland Britain.

However, the INLA is believed instead to be promoting the idea of a non
-aggression pact with the Province's largest republican group, the IRA, and
mainstream loyalist paramilitary groups.

The INLA declared a ceasefire on August 22 last year after a bloody campaign of
violence which saw several feuds within the organisation.

But before its ceasefire was called, its members carried out the murder of one
of the Province's most feared loyalist paramilitary leaders, Billy Wright, in
the Maze Prison in December 1997.

No one from the Irish Republican Socialist Party was available for comment last
night on reports that the INLA's war is over.

However, there was a cautious response from unionist politicians.

Ulster Unionist MP Jeffrey Donaldson said he would be adopting "a wait and see
approach".

"This is obvious speculation at this stage and while there may be substance to
this story, at the end of the day the INLA will have to prove that they have
declared a complete end to their campaign of violence.

"If the INLA are calling a complete end to their campaign of violence, then it
follows like day follows night that they will have to decommission," the Lagan
Valley MP said.

DUP justice spokesman Ian Paisley jnr said he was "distinctly underwhelmed" by
the report.

"This is a meaningless charade by the INLA to protect and take the spotlight
away from what their fellow republicans the IRA have done.

"The IRA and its political wing, Sinn Fein, is under immense pressure over the
killing of Charles Bennett and arms smuggling from the United States.

"So let's not lose sight of the issue - the IRA has no ceasefire. The Government
should admit this in the wake of the murder of Charles Bennett."

The SDLP's policing spokesman, Alex Attwood, said: "It is long past time when
all those who are in the paramilitaries accepted that there is no need for war
on this island."

The West Belfast Assemblyman went on: "If any paramilitary grouping or faction
in a paramilitary group has reached the conclusion the only way forward is
through dialogue, normal politics and non-violence, then that has to be
welcomed."

However, the report was dismissed by a Sinn Fein spokesman who said republicans
would be "very sceptical" about it and reluctant to comment any further on it.

LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK: Airey Neave's car after the bomb which killed the MP

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              360 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                             August 9, 1999, Monday

BRITONS GUILTY OF YEMEN TERRORISM;
 BRUM FIVE: THREE JAILED TWO RELEASED

BYLINE: Mark Cowan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 817 words


FIVE Birmingham men were among eight Britons imprisoned today after being found
guilty of forming an armed gang to carry out terrorist acts in the Yemen.

Following a six-month trial in Aden, Judge Jamal Mohammad Omar rejected claims
that the Muslim men were tortured into confessing their part in the plot.

Shahid Butt, (33), Malik Nassar Harhra, (26), both from Small Heath, Samad Ahmed
(21), from Yardley, Shazad Nabi (20) and Ayad Hussein (26), both from Bordesley,
were jailed for between three and seven years at the court in the port town.

They had stood trial with Gulam Hussain (25) of Luton, Mohsin Ghalain (18) and
Mohammed Mustafa Kamel (17) both from London.

Explosives

Verdicts are still awaited on remaining charges faced by the men, including
possession of explosives and weapons.

All the men except the 17-year-old defendant face total sentences of up to 10
years in jail.

Kamel is the son of Abu Hamza, the radical Muslim cleric accused by the Yemeni
prosecutors of masterminding the alleged bombing plot from London. Ghailan is
his step-son.

The prosecution has claimed the defendants arrived in Yemen last year and
started training in a military camp by Islamic militant Zein Al-Abidine al
-Mihdar, who was sentenced to death in May for his part in the kidnapping of
Western hostages which ended in the deaths of four of them.

A cache of rocket-propelled grenades, TNT explosives, anti-tank rockets, mines,
laptops and communications equipment was allegedly discovered in the possession
of the defendants.

Their families have insisted the men were simply travelling in Yemen to study
Arabic.

The judge told a packed courthouse: "The court did not find any relationship
between the defendants' claims of being tortured and their statements which were
presented by the prosecution to the court."

He added: "It was proven to the court that the 10 defendants (the other two are
French nationals) formed an armed group to implement their terrorist plans."

The men were taken to court amid tight security to hear the verdicts which
follow a trial condemned by their lawyers as a "travesty of justice".

Comment

The Foreign Office said it would wait to hear the full verdict and sentences
before making any comment.

The French co-defendants are James Louvres and Ali Mohsen.

By MARK COWAN

THREE Birmingham men were among five Britons imprisoned today after being found
guilty of forming an armed gang to carry out terrorist acts in the Yemen.

Two other Birmingham men were among three other Britons also found guilty but
told they were free to leave after the court ruled they had served long enough
in jail since their arrest.

The court in Aden, giving the verdicts after a six-month trial, dismissed the
men's claims that they were tortured into confessing their part in a Muslim plot
to bomb targets in the Arab state.

Four of the Britons were also found guilty on a second charge of plotting
terrorist activity.

On the first charge of conspiring to form an armed gang, Malik Nassar Harhra,
(26), from Small Heath, and Mohsin Ghailan, (18) a stepson of Abu Hamza, from
London, both received seven years in jail.

Radical

Shahid Butt, (33), from Small Heath, and Samad Ahmed, (21), from Yardley, were
both jailed for five years.

Mohammed Mustafa Kamel, the 17-year-old son of Abu Hamza, the radical London
-based cleric accused by the Yemeni prosecutors of being behind the plot,
received three years.

The men who were sentenced to the time they had already served in jail were
Ghulam Hussein, (25), of Luton, Shazad Nabi (20) and Ayad Hussein (26), both
from Bordesley.

On the second charge of planning terrorist activity, Malik Harhra and Ghailan
were sentenced to three years and Mohammed Mustafa Kamel and Sarwad Ahmen to
three years.

It was not immediately clear whether these sentences would be served
consecutively or concurrently.

The Foreign Office said all eight men had declared in court their intention to
appeal against their sentences, including the three sentenced to time served.

A spokesman said it was unclear at present whether they would be required to
remain in custody pending the appeal.

Judge Jamal Mohammad Omar told a packed courtroom: "The court did not find any
relationship between the defendants' claims of being tortured and their
statements which were presented by the prosecution to the court."

He added: "It was proven to the court that the 10 defendants (the other two are
Algerian nationals) formed an armed group to implement their terrorist plans."

The two Algerians, who were travelling on fake French passports, were each
sentenced to five years.

There was tight security at the court house.

It included the deployment of 200 policemen armed with AK-47s, for the end of a
trial which has damaged relations between Britain and Yemen.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shazad Nabi Ayad Hussein Malik Harhra Samad Ahmed GUILTY: Shahid; Butt,
pictured with one of his children, has been jailed for five years

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              361 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 August 9, 1999

Terror group says Ulster war is over;
INLA confirms ceasefire amid fear of violence from republican splinter groups

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 652 words


Audrey Gillan

The Irish National Liberation Army confirmed yesterday that it believed the war
in Northern Ireland was over.

The hardline republican terror group that killed the Conservative MP Airey Neave
in 1979 in a car bomb in the House of Commons car park is the first paramilitary
group to state that the armed struggle is over.

The news will dampen speculation that the INLA is set to join forces with two
IRA splinter groups - the Real IRA, which carried out the Omagh bombing almost a
year ago, and the Continuity IRA -to begin a bombing campaign in mainland
Britain.

A source within the INLA's political wing, the Irish Republican Socialist party,
said the cessation of the war was 'nothing new' since it had been inactive after
calling a ceasefire in August of last year.

Insiders say it was felt that there was no reason to continue a campaign of
violence as it had been concluded that there was no political or moral argument
to justify the resumption of terror.

Instead, the INLA is believed to be promoting the idea of a non-aggression pact
with the IRA and mainstream loyalist paramilitary groups. A protestant clergyman
and two Belfast community activists are said to be behind the plan.

The INLA, which has killed more than 140 people during its 24 years of
existence, declared a ceasefire on August 22 last year, saying it had shifted
from 'the position of defence and retaliation to the position of complete
ceasefire'.

The cessation of violence followed a bloody campaign in which six people,
including a nine-year-old girl, lost their lives amid internal feuding. It was
during this time that the INLA murdered the Loyalist Volunteer Force leader
Billy Wright, known as King Rat, in Belfast's Maze prison.

The murder of one of Ulster's most feared loyalist paramilitary leaders resulted
in several tit-for-tat killings, and many innocent people became caught up in
the slaughter.

The INLA became one of the most unstable and ruthless republican groups in Irish
history, carrying out one of the worst atrocities of the 1980s when it bombed
the Droppin' Well disco in Co Derry, killing 11 British soldiers and six women.

Last night there was a cautious response to the INLA statement from unionist
politicians in the province, some suggesting that the group had put itself in
the spotlight to expedite the release of some of its prisoners.

Jeffrey Donaldson, the Ulster Unionist MP, said he would be adopting 'a wait
-and-see approach'.

'This is obvious speculation at this stage and while there may be substance to
this story, at the end of the day the INLA will have to prove that they have
declared a complete end to their campaign of violence,' he said. 'If the INLA
are calling a complete end to their campaign of violence, then it follows like
day follows night that they will have to decommission.'

Ian Paisley Jr of the Democratic Unionists said he was 'distinctly underwhelmed'
by the news.

He claimed it was an attempt by the INLA to take the spotlight away from the
IRA, which was under immense pressure after the recent paramilitary-style
killing of Charles Bennett, believed to be a police informer. It was also under
scrutiny after the discovery that arms were being smuggled to Ireland from the
US, allegedly on the IRA's behalf.

Meanwhile Downing Street last night denied newspaper reports that Tony Blair had
had secret face-to-face discussions with members of the IRA's army council
during last month's peace talks. 'All the prime minister's contacts with the
republican movement have been through Sinn Fein,' a spokesman insisted.

A Sinn Fein spokesman also dismissed the story as 'rubbish', adding that it was
'absolutely and categorically not true'.

It was claimed that the IRA made a direct offer to decommission all their
weapons by May 2000 to the prime minister in a meeting during the Stormont
talks.


LOAD-DATE: August 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              362 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                August 10, 1999

Militants' warning over Britons convicted in Yemen

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 364 words


EIGHT British Muslims found guilty of terror charges in Yemen were today
planning an appeal against their convictions.

Supporters of the eight, who were found guilty yesterday of plotting to form an
armed gang in Yemen, have branded their trial a travesty of justice.

Meanwhile Islamic militants in the UK today warned of "repercussions" against
the British Government following the convictions.

In a statement, the UK branch of the Al-Muharjiroun organisation said the
verdict would "enrage" British Muslims, and warned that Islam was "coming to
finish the corruption of the US and Britain".

Five of the Britons, including a 17-year-old boy, received jail terms of between
three and seven years.

Three others were sentenced to time they had already served in prison and were
told they were free to go.

But they were considering remaining in Yemen with their co-accused to appeal
against the convictions which followed claims that they were tortured into
making false confessions.

Four of the men were also found guilty of plotting terrorist activities.

Relatives and the men's lawyers denounced the verdicts and accused the British
Government of not doing enough to ensure they had a fair trial.

The men, from London, Luton and Birmingham, were accused of being involved in a
plot by Islamic fundamentalists to bomb British targets in Aden.

Two co-defendants of Algerian descent were also convicted and jailed for five
years.

Judge Jamal Mohammad Omar told a packed Aden courtroom at the end of the six
-month trial that he was rejecting the defendants' torture allegations.

On the first charge of conspiring to form an armed gang, Mohammed Mustafa Kamel,
the 17-year-old son of radical London-based cleric Abu Hamza alleged by the
prosecution to have masterminded the plot, received three years.

Malik Nassar Harhra, 26 and Mohsin Ghailan, 18, stepson of Abu Hamza, both
received seven years in jail. Shahid Butt, 33 and Sarmad Ahmed, 21, were jailed
for five years.

The men who were sentenced to the time they had already served in jail were
Ghulam Hussein, 25 - who had been on bail for ill health - Shaz Nabi, 20, and
Ayad Hussein, 24.


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              363 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 10, 1999, Tuesday

VERDICT MUST BE 'NOT PROVEN'

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 550 words


Despite the politically-correct times we live in, a wave of xenophobia sweeps
the country whenever Britons are tried in foreign courts. Organisations like
Fair Trials Abroad imply, by their very name, that such things are impossible to
achieve.

We expend a disproportionate amount of energy examining the evidence and
processes of foreign jurisdictions because we seem to have an innate tendency to
assume they cannot conduct themselves with the fairness and honesty we expect
from British courts.

We do this despite the ample evidence from a long series of cases that
miscarriages of justice are at least as likely to occur in this country as
anywhere else in the world - especially, remembering the Birmingham Six or the
Guildford Four, for instance - when the trials involve allegations of terrorism.

We therefore hear the verdicts and sentences meted out by a court in the Yemen
with a cynical predisposition to assume the men who have been convicted are
victims of a politically-inspired miscarriage of justice.

Bearing that in mind, and seeking to redress the balance, it is as likely as not
that the men accused of plotting terrorist activities against British targets in
the Yemen were guilty of involvement in such activities. The idea they were all
there "on holiday" is hard to accept and it is not entirely true to say the only
evidence against them is their confessions.

There is, for instance, the matter of the rocket-propelled grenades, TNT
explosives, anti-tank rockets, mines, laptop computers and communications
equipment in the boot of the car some of the defendants were travelling in when
they were arrested. Coming soon after the kidnapping of Western hostages, which
ended in the deaths of four people, the Yemeni authorities were rightly
concerned about attempts to destabilise their Government. The link between the
defendants and Abu Hamza, head of the radical Supporters of Sharia group, adds
to the suspicion these men were not all innocents abroad.

It is not surprising, therefore, they were found guilty yesterday or that some
of them must now spend up to seven years in jail.

However, even alleged terrorists are usually entitled to a fair trial, a fact
that we in Britain should be particularly aware of. And even if we try to
discount our natural suspicion of foreign courts, it still seems as if the eight
Britons have not been given a reasonably fair trial in the Yemen.

They claim to have been tortured. The judge, Jamal Mohammad, says he did not
find "any relationship" between their torture claims and the confessions which
were the most damning evidence against them. The judge did not, however, say
there was no evidence of torture and while the "torture" may not, in some cases
at least, have amounted to more than rough handling, it would still be enough in
this country to make any subsequent confessions inadmissible.

The trial itself was singularly unfair. The defence had little or no chance to
prepare a proper case and was, at times, treated contemptuously by the court.

For these reasons alone the convictions are unfair and unjust. The Government
should demand the return of the Britons and then release them from prison. In
return it should deport Mr Hamza, whose presence in this country is not
acceptable.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              364 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Express & Echo (Exeter)

                                August 10, 1999

Penny aids Britons in Yemen case

SECTION: Pg.12

LENGTH: 354 words


A DEVON woman is playing a diplomatic role on behalf of eight Britons held in
Yemen after being convicted on terrorism charges.

Penny Walsh, whose parents Ken and Moira live at West View Close, Whimple, is
working for the Foreign Office and has been involved in the men's case, which
has strained relations between the Middle East country and Britain.

She is part of the British Consul team making sure the men are kept safe and
well during their ordeal.

Following the sentencing in Aden on Monday, she told British journalists: 'We
have closely followed the trial from the outset. I recognise the disappointment
of this verdict to the men and their families. We will continue to do everything
we can to ensure these men are treated fairly.i

She was due to travel back to her base in the Yemeni capital, San'a, today.

Three of the Britons were freed after it was considered they had served enough
time behind bars awaiting the court's ruling. But they will not be able to leave
Yemen for at least three weeks unless they withdraw their appeals against
conviction, a British diplomat has said.

Ghulam Hussein, 25, Shaz Nabi, 20, and Ayad Hussein, 24, would be given back
their passports and tickets and would be free to return to Britain, said Mustafa
Rajmanar, British vice-consul in Aden.

eeIf they withdraw their appeal, they could leave today,'' he said. eeBut they
say they are innocent and want to be cleared.''

Five other Britons and two Algerians received jail sentences ranging from three
to seven years.

Prosecutors said the defendants were planning terrorist attacks on targets in
Yemen.

The court overruled defence claims that the defendants' confessions were false
and had been extracted by torture.

Britain says there is insufficient evidence against the men, but the Foreign
Office says it cannot intervene in another country's judicial system. The men's
families say they will press the Foreign Office for further help.

Mr Rajmanar, the vice-consul, said the freed men had 15 days to decide whether
or not to withdraw their appeal. If not the process could take three weeks to
two months.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Express & Echo

                              365 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 11, 1999

Ambassador pleads for Britons' release

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 301 words


THE British Ambassador to Yemen has appealed to the country's president to
release two of the Britons convicted of terror charges after prosecutors moved
to increase their sentences.

Shaz Nabi and Ayad Hussein had expected to be freed yesterday after being
sentenced to the time they had already served in jail at Monday's hearing.

But Yemeni prosecutors said they intended to appeal against the "light
sentences" - blocking their release.

Ambassador Vic Henderson will raise their plight when he visits President Saleh
to deliver a letter from Prime Minister Tony Blair expressing concern about
allegations that the eight Britons convicted of plotting to form an armed gang
were tortured into making false confessions.

The men's lawyer, Badr Basunaid said Shaz Nabi and Ayad Hussein were likely to
be kept in custody until the prosecution appeal.

A Foreign Office spokesman said: "We are not interfering in the legal process,
this is a consular matter. It's important that the rights of the men are
represented. They should be at least released into the community in Yemen while
any appeal is pending."

The men were sentenced on Monday to time served after being found guilty of
forming an armed gang with the aim of plotting terrorist acts in Yemen.

They appealed against the sentence along with the others who were convicted -
five other Britons and two Algerians, who received jail sentences from three to
seven years.

Prosecutors said the defendants were linked to Islamic radicals who kidnapped 16
Westerners in December, four of whom died in a shootout during a rescue attempt
by Yemeni security forces. The case has strained relations between Yemen and
Britain.

The other Britons convicted are Sarmad Ahmed, Shahid Butt, Mohammed Kamel, Malik
Nassar Harhra and Mohsin Ghailan.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              366 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            August 13, 1999, Friday

OMAGH PAIN AND HOPE: COURAGEOUS OMAGH SHOWS HOW SO MUCH GOOD CAN COME OF EVIL

BYLINE: Rosie Cowan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14, 15

LENGTH: 773 words


Halfway through Saturday afternoon on August 15 last year, Omagh was a bustling
market town, packed with local shoppers and tourists.

Mothers were buying school uniforms; teenagers were meeting their friends; a
coachload of children from the Irish Republic and their Spanish exchange guests
were enjoying a day out.

But at 10 minutes past three, the town was plunged into a nightmare by the car
bomb, planted by dissident republican terrorists The Real IRA, which left 29
dead and scores seriously injured.

A year later, the memories are as strong as ever. Many people still trying to
come to terms with the atrocity, and the community is working at trying to
rebuild the town physically as well as emotionally.

"I can still hear that sickening bang and I know now it was the sound of lives
ending,", says parish priest Father Kevin Mullan.

"When I got to Market Street, people were pulling at me to say a prayer here,
say a prayer there, for the dying. My own system shut off from trying to find
out who the dead were.

"There were ambulances, taxis, people running everywhere, panic and
bewilderment."

The chaos continued through the night as people flocked in their thousands to
the hospital to try and find their relatives, and to the local leisure centre,
where many spent the longest night of their lives only to find out their loved
ones were dead.

"I'll never forget the look of horror and pain on those faces as it dawned on
someone their wife, or husband or child was not coming back," says council chief
executive John McKinney, who was thrust into the role of emergency co
-ordinator.

Local Ulster Unionist MP Willie Thompson says he will never understand the logic
of it.

"The hardest time for me was on that Sunday morning when I had to face the
world's Press at the bomb site as a public representative, but all I could think
about was the dead and injured. I knew so many."

A week of funerals followed as mourners trailed from one grief-stricken home to
another and sympathy poured in from all over the globe.

"The compassion of the rest of the world came in great waves," said Father
Mullan. "People continually came to Omagh or invited local people to them.

"We've had unlimited kindness. You just couldn't measure it and there's been a
huge team spirit from within the town - the churches, trauma centre, council,
police, community groups."

The fact the bombers have not yet been brought to justice casts a shadow over
the town's recovery.

"I don't doubt the police know who did this but they are trying to get real,
hard evidence," says Mr Thompson. "The dark reality is the police only have one
chance. If they bring someone to court and he goes free they can't retry him.

Father Mullan says: "There is anger and disappointment that people didn't hand
the bombers over and show others you can't do this."

As preparations continue for the cross-community anniversary service this
Sunday, Mr McKinney does not want it turned into a showpiece, but feels it is
important there is a public expression of grief.

"After the anniversary there will be discussion about a permanent memorial, and
probably an exhibition to display people's memories and thoughts," he explains.

"We have more than 800 books of condolence from all over the world, and there
are poems and songs that we want to get published."

He hopes the new streetscape - which will include an arts centre, a Queen's
University outreach facility, new bank, shops and a new street down to the river
- will incorporate a major community centre for healing and reconciliation.

"This should be complete in the new millennium, and we hope the UK millennium
celebrations will be launched in Omagh," he says.

Like Father Mullan, who says the bomb "revealed the magnificence of the human
spirit", Mr McKinney sees the good that has come from the evil that was done to
the town.

"There are things like the youth choir, the churches forum, the deep friendships
among the bereaved and injured. A lot will happen in Omagh as a result of the
bomb but we've always got to remember why."

Meanwhile, the grieving and the memories - and the fear that what happened in
Omagh could happen elsewhere - goes on for many.

"You drop in, you listen, you talk a while, you're aware of lots of other people
doing this," explains Father Mullan.

"People are still living on their nerves, living on the edge of terror,
somewhere on the edge of their minds.

"In a very intense way. Omagh carries the hopes of two islands, Ireland and
Britain, that there won't be a return to violence, ever again."

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REBUILDING THE TOWN: John McKinney chief executive of Omagh district
council at the site of the Omagh bomb attack which killed 29 people on the 15th
August 1998. Preparations are under way for a remembrance garden for this
weekend's first anniverssary of the attack.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              367 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           August 14, 1999, Saturday

AIRLINES ON ALERT AFTER TERROR THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 199 words


Fears that Islamic terrorists are plannng another Lockerbie-style bomb outage
have prompted British and American airlines to launch a major security alert.

Supporters of Saudi exile Osama Bin Laden, one of the world's most feared
extremists, are believed to be behind the threat.

He is accused of masterminding explosions at two US embassies in Africa last
year in which 250 people died.

The Government has warned all UK airlines that there might be an attempt to
smuggle a bomb on to a Briitsh plane in the next three months.

Brtitian is a major target for Islamic hit squads because of its support for
America's bombings on Bin Laden's training bases in Afghanistan.

The warning by the Department of Trade follows intelligence from America which
specifically mentions Samsonite suitcases.

One security source admitted last night: "We are taking this threat very
seriously."

Scotland Yard's Anti-Terrorist Squad is working closely with its American
counterpart.

British Airways is believed to have stepped up security checks on luggage from
Middle Eastern destinations to Britain, and to have brought in extra guards to
protect planes before they fly home.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              368 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                August 14, 1999

A day of remembrance in the town which can never forget

BYLINE: Iain Wilson Chief Reporter

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 889 words


A 350lb bomb devastated the heart of Omagh and left 29 dead one year ago. Chief
Reporter Iain Wilson covered the atrocity and its aftermath. Here he examines
how the people of the market to wn are still struggling to cope

THIS weekend, Omagh will formal ly remember its dead. But not one day has gone
by in the past y ear when they have been forgotten.

It is unlikely the market to wn will ever come to terms with the horrors wreaked
upon it, th e worst in 30 years of the Troubles.

Once sleepy, where 20,000 Catholics and Protestants lived together, it is now
awake to di visions in Ulster which, until Saturday, August 15, 1998, seeme d a
million miles away.

The official death toll was 29, includi ng nine children. Unofficially, it was
31 because Mrs Avril Mon aghan was seven months' pregnant with twins when caught
by the full force of the 350lb car bomb.

Left outside a clothes shop o n carnival day, it exploded at 3.10pm. Some 350
people were inj ured, after misinformation from a terrorist group meant they we
re shepherded by police towards the bomb.

Many who lost loved o nes are still struggling to cope in the County Tyrone
town, bes t known for linen and two salmon-filled rivers. There is also a nger
and distress that the bombers have still not been brought to justice.

Local priest, Father Kevin Mullan, said: "I can st ill hear that sickening bang
and I now know it was the sound of lives ending.

"There were ambulances, taxis, helicopters - pe ople running everywhere, panic
and bewilderment."

Ms Liz Gibso n's sister Esther was a victim, the 37-year-old had been due to
marry on July 29 this year, she said her sister's fiance and f amily are
broken-hearted.

"Esther was the kind of person we'd all like to be," she said. "Why would anyone
want to kill her ?

"If it had been an illness or even a car accident, you could have accepted it,
in time, but to make a bomb and plant it whe re you knew there would be so many
people, so many children . .  .

"There must be wives, sisters, who know their menfolk were in some way connected
and yet they say nothing. How could anyon e do that?"

Mr Michael Gallagher, whose 21-year-old son Adrian died, spoke of his
frustration that the killers had not been c aught and the lack of political
progress over the year.

"It's not right anyone can murder people and get away with it, and ye t there is
a wall of silence in the republican community which could have handed in the
culprits.

"The road to peace seems as painful now as it was in the 1970s . . . does the
pain my fami ly are feeling have to come to every family in Northern Ireland
before we all decide to change?"

There are physical as well a s emotional problems in the aftermath.

Miss Claire Gallagher, 1 6, was blinded. Her mother, Marie, said: "Sometimes I
hate the sunshine beaming through the curtains because I know Claire wa kes up
and her world is black.

"You either sink or swim in the se situations.

"Most of the time we struggle to keep afloat, b ut we keep trying."

Una McGurk, 15, who suffered serious facia l scarring, said: "I hate to think if
I get married I'll have these scars on my wedding day.

"My friends are worried about h ow their hair is sitting, but I have to live
with this for the rest of my life."

Of course, there have been events to assuage some of the horrors. Babies have
been born. The wedding of Mi ss Donna Marie Keyes to Mr Gary McGillion was
especially uplift ing.

But Mr David Bolton, head of a special trauma unit which c ared for more than
500 in distress, warns the second year after such a devastating event can be
worse than the first.

After th e initial shock and disbelief, grief and a full sense of loss w ill set
in.

He believes Northern Ireland as a whole has not dea lt well with the emotional
scarring of terrorism, but hopes les sons from Omagh's painful experience will
help many others.

Tod ay, the town's rebuilding is more fabric than emotional, with a multi
-million shopping development under way on the Market Str eet bomb site.

However, new cross-community groups, including a youth choir, are seeking to
prove good can come from evil. Pla ns include a reconciliation and healing
centre.

"A lot will ha ppen in Omagh as a result of the bomb - but we've always got to
remember why," said council chief executive John McKinney.

Ab ove all, Omagh now has a special place in the peace process, wh ich was
summed up by Father Mullan: "In a very intense way, Om agh carries the hopes of
two islands, Ireland and Britain, that there won't be a return to violence ever
again."

Church bells will ring out at 3pm today, and there will be a private ceremo ny
in Market Street, where a temporary garden of remembrance ha s been created.

Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam is expecte d to be among thousands of
people attending a memorial service for the victims tomorrow.

She said: "Omagh reminds us of the d epths of evil, savagery and murder which we
all want to leave b ehind."

A service will also be held in the County Donegal home town of three young boys
who died, with prayers also for two S paniards on an exchange visit.

The Real IRA, a dissident republ ican group, has claimed responsibility. One man
is in custody.

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Devastation caused by the car bomb, and today, after Omagh's
regeneration a Tarmac patch remains to mark the spot where it was left

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              369 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 15, 1999, Sunday

FOCUS: THE WRONG PLACE TO PICK AN ADVENTURE

BYLINE: Andrew Marshall

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 532 words


nnocent victims of a repressive Third World tyranny, or foot-soldiers of a vast
Muslim terrorist conspiracy? These two stereotypes have both been applied to the
eight Britons convicted of plotting armed attacks in Yemen last week. But the
truth is, as always in a country that defies easy categorisation, much more
complex than that.

Their trial was used by the Yemeni government to show that it was fighting the
good fight against terrorism, but also as a weapon against its regional and
internal enemies. Without knowing it, the young British Muslims stepped into a
situation created by past British adventures, by American fears of terrorism and
by Saudi Arabia's nervousness about a tough if poor nation on its southern
border. The eight seem to have believed that they were there to side with fellow
Muslims against Western imperialism and the forces of secularism in Yemen.

As in many Muslim countries, Islam has frequently been used in internal politics
as a counterweight to secular or socialist forces. During the bloody civil war
between North and South in 1994, leading Muslims from the South were an
important part of the North's forces.

Afterwards some, like Abu Hassan, who led the Aden-Abyan Islamic army, felt that
they had been insufficiently rewarded, and decided to strike back. It was
through links to this group that the young Britons apparently came to travel to
Yemen.

They picked a bad time. Last year the US started to move towards using Yemen as
a strategic base. But it also feared that Yemen was being used as a base for
regional subversion by Islamists, some of whom had returned from the war in
Afghanistan.

In these fears it was prompted by Saudi Arabia, and by Egypt, which feared that
the country would become a haven for opponents of the Cairo regime. Osama bin
Laden, the man America blames for last year's African embassy bombings, has
links to Yemen: his family came from the country, and groups linked to him had
training bases there.

Yemen responded to the fears of the West by kicking out hundreds of people. Its
government also badly needed Western support, so when a group of likely lads
from Britain turned up on the Yemenis' doorstep, they were obvious scapegoats.
Abu Hassan responded to their arrest by kidnapping a group of Westerners, some
of whom died in a shoot-out with internal security forces. The government seems
to have panicked, and that made a tough approach to the British prisoners even
more likely.

Britain is still regarded as a regional mischief-maker and imperialist: after
all, it fought a long covert war against Sana in the 1950s and 1960s; it had
been the colonial power in Aden for 150 years; and it still houses the Yemeni
opposition who fled the country after the civil war.

So the Yemeni government used the trial to show its seriousness in the war
against terrorism, the influence of overseas forces and to hint at the wicked
role of the British. As for these inexperienced young men, they were in the
wrong place at the wrong time and, like many Britons over the centuries who have
risked their lives with adventures in southern Arabia, they were lucky to escape
with their lives.

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              370 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                August 15, 1999

Bomb plot tip-offs fuel airline safety fears

BYLINE: TONY THOMPSON AND MARK HONIGSBAUM

SECTION: Observer News Pages; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 529 words


A LEADING campaigner on air security has criticised the safety measures of major
airlines following warnings that Islamic terrorists are planning a
Lockerbie-style attack on a passenger plane.

Dr Jim Swire, whose daughter Flora was among the 270 people who died in the 1988
Lockerbie bombing, said the United Kingdom had acted to improve security but
others had lagged behind. 'If you are flying out of the UK you are better
protected than if you are flying in from anywhere else,' he said. 'There will be
a lot of people in those countries sweating because they have done so little to
improve security recently. We have had 11 years to put our house in order and,
though it's by no means perfect yet, Britain has made significant advances. I do
not have the same assurance about air security in either the US or Europe where
there's been a lamentable slowness, especially in the US, in following this
lead.'

The warning came as the Department of Transport refused to confirm reports that,
following a tip-off from US intelligence sources, it had issued secret warnings
to all UK airlines that an attempt may be made to smuggle a bomb onto a plane
during the next three months. A spokesman said: 'We are aware of the reports but
we do not discuss security matters.'

British Airways stepped up security on all flights leaving Heathrow yesterday.
Checks were particularly tight on scheduled services to the United States and
Middle East from Terminal Four. Although the airline refused to comment on the
reports of a bomb threat, it stressed that it was now spending pounds 100
million a year on security. 'Safety and security is our number one priority and
is never compromised,' said a BA spokeswoman.

The airline also dismissed newspaper reports that the US Federal Aviation
Authority had expressed concern about its alleged failure to use sophisticated
scanning equipment to check passenger luggage at Chicago's O'Hare Airport. BA
said it was 'staggered' by the allegations, insisted that it operated its
CTX5000 scanners in accordance with regulations and had received no complaint
from the FAA.

It is understood that the airline has stepped up the screening of luggage from
Middle Eastern destinations to Britain and has brought in extra guards to
protect planes before they return home.

Supporters of one of the world's most wanted terrorists, Saudi Arabian exile
Osama bin Laden, are thought to be behind the threats. Bin Laden, the 42-year
-old son of one of Saudi Arabia's wealthiest families, has been linked to a
number of Islamic extremist groups and individuals with vehement anti-American
and anti-Israeli ideologies. Most recently he formed an organisation called the
International Islamic Front for Jihad Against America and Israel.

Bin Laden, currently in hiding in Afghanistan, was the mastermind behind the
bombings at embassies in East Africa last August which left more than 250 dead
and a further 5,000 wounded. Five members of his guerrilla ring, Al-Qaeda, are
in custody in the US. Bin Laden is also wanted for a 1995 bomb attack that
killed five American serviceman in Riyadh and for bomb plots in Asia and Europe.


LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              371 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 15, 1999, Sunday

THE PRINCE WAS SWIMMING ALONE. SUDDENLY HE WAS STARING AT MURDEROUS HARPOON GUNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2, 3

LENGTH: 728 words


PRINCE Charles was saved from being speared to death by his Scotland Yard
minders.

He was swimming in a bay with Princess Alexandra on his Greek holiday when a
dozen fanatic supporters of the anti-British Cypriot group EOKA group suddenly
roared up in a boat.

They threatened the shocked prince with harpoon guns as they screamed insults,
threatening to "teach you a lesson" for Britain's messy colonial involvement in
Cyprus.

The helpless prince kept cool - and trod water as he set off a secret security
alarm which he carries even when he is only wearing swimming trunks.

Inspector Peter Brown and Superintendent Colin Trimming roared up in a high
-speed launch.

Brown bravely put himself between the lethal harpoon guns and the prince and
talked softly to the Greek Cypriots.

Eventually they backed down and sped off. But last night a royal courtier said:
"The prince was very very vulnerable when this happened. Make no mistake, if
they had wanted to kill him he would now be dead.

"He was completely helpless and, until Peter Brown arrived, completely in their
power.

"Charles remained utterly calm throughout, but that is the man. He was more
concerned at the terrible danger Brown was in.

"If violence had erupted there is no doubt he would be dead, because he would
have put himself between the harpoon-gun and the prince rather than save
himself.

"The fanatics were screaming but Charles simply could not understand most of
what he was saying.

"But he knew he was in huge danger and had to stay calm.

"He was also very concerned to keep any danger away from the Princess, and swam
away from her to ensure the attention was on him not her." Last night Scotland
Yard were asking:

HOW did the fanatics know that Charles was swimming in that isolated bay at that
particular time?

WHY wasn't Charles warned before his holiday that there could be trouble from
fanatic locals?

There is a huge furore at Scotland Yard over the incident.

There is enormous concern that the royal yacht, borrowed from Greek billionaire
John Latsis, had been tracked by the extremists to the specific cove where the
Prince was swimming.

The fear is that Greek sympathisers on the boat may have tipped off the fanatics
on land,.

Neither Princes William or Harry nor his mistress Camilla Parker-Bowles knew of
the incident until it was all over and none was in danger themselves. One of the
prince's staff told the Sunday People: "It was a terrifying and enormously
dangerous incident.

"The prince - just as when he was attacked in Australia by a fanatic several
years ago - was completely cool.

"But there's no doubt his life was in terrible danger.

"He kept very cool and simply treaded water and tried to calm things down.

"He was able to raise the alarm through certain security devices that are always
with him."

Within minutes armed royal detectives dived on a speedboat and roared from the
prince's yacht to place themselves between their royal charge and the gang.

There then became a highly tense armed stand-off which lasted 30 minutes before
the Cypriot extremists roared away leaving the royal party shaken but safe.

One of Charles's royal courtiers said: "There was no shoot out, but there could
easily have been. The detectives, who were all armed themselves, were threatened
with harpoon guns by the attackers.

"It could easily have ended in massive bloodshed."

The hero of the hour was Brown who calmed down the Cypriots and persuaded them
to leave.

The courtier added: "He put his own life in danger by positioning himself
between the Cypriots and the prince. There were moments when they thought it
would turn to bloodshed and he would get the first harpoon straight through his
stomach.

"However, he kept calming the Cypriots and persuading them to leave. He pleaded
with them to think of his children on the yacht.

"He was brilliant - afterwards the prince could not thank him enough."

Throughout the tense exchanges the prince was forced by Trimming to stay in the
sea treading water because it put him at less risk.

Last night a royal spokesman said: "We can confirm that the occupants of a boat
in the Mediterranean approached and tried to speak to two members of the royal
family who were nearby.

"A protection officer spoke to them and they moved away."

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOTING DAD: Charles with William and Harry at Highgrove before they
left for their sunshine cruise; HOLIDAY DANGER: Charles and pals were sailing on
the second largest yacht in the world. The prince was swimming when he was
attacked by harpoon- gun wielding terrorists

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              372 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                August 17, 1999

The cleric 'rounding up recruits for a holy war';
TIGHT SECURITY AS MOSLEM LEADER TRACKED BY MI5 FIGHTS DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Tom Rawstorne

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 752 words


A PAKISTANI cleric accused of recruiting British Moslems to fight a holy war in
India yesterday began a landmark battle against deportation.

Shafiq ur Rehman, 28, has been condemned as a threat to national security by
Home Secretary Jack Straw following an MI5 probe into his activities.

Yesterday he became the first person to appear before the Special Immigration
Appeals Commission, set up to adjudicate on deportations ordered on national
security grounds.

Amid scenes of tight security, an MI5 officer who interviewed Rehman admitted
the security services had sought to recruit him as a spy, but he refused.

Rehman, who preaches from a mosque in Oldham, is said to lead the UK arm of an
organisation whose military wing claims to have killed 6,000 Indian soldiers in
the disputed northern territory of Kashmir.

As well as raising thousands of pounds for the organisation, he is also said to
have recruited Britons to undergo military training for a 'jihad' or holy war.

According to MI5 his activities not only directly supported terrorism but could
pose future problems for race relations in this country.

Mr Straw ruled last December that he should be deported.

The appeal, presided over in central London by High Court judge Sir Humphrey
Potts, is expected to last till Thursday and could have far-reaching
implications for the Government in its attempts to bury claims that it has
provided a haven for terrorists working abroad.

Rehman was allowed into Britain in 1993 on the understanding that he would work
as a minister of religion. He was joined by his wife and they have since had two
sons in the UK.

But MI5 claim he has been acting as British leader of an Islamic extremist
organisation known as the MDI. Its military mujahideen fighters are known as the
Lashkar Tayyada (LT) and are particularly active in Kashmir, the scene of bloody
clashes between Indian forces and Pakistan-backed fighters recently.

'LT has claimed responsibility for terrorist attacks including the deaths of 29
people in two villages on April 17 1998,' a Home Office statement to the hearing
said. 'On its website, LT currently claims to have killed more than 6,000 Indian
troops in Kashmir.' The statement claimed that Rehman had played a part in
sending young British Moslems for indoctrination and weapons training in
Pakistan.

Security Service chiefs feared the returning recruits could encourage militant
behaviour among the wider Moslem community.

'Mr Rehman has been partly responsible for an increase in the number of Moslems
in the UK who have undergone some form of militant training, including
indoctrination into extreme beliefs and at least some basic weapons handling,'
it said.

Having built up a detailed dossier on Rehman, MI5 stopped him at Manchester
Airport on his return from a trip to Pakistan in December 1997.

They searched his luggage and found an MDI diary containing photos of weapons
such as mortars, small arms and light artillery.

'He admitted that he did recruit for jihad training and that he raised funds for
MDI, claiming that this amounted to approximately GBP 100 per week,' the
statement continued.

He insisted that the funds he raised went to support welfare and education
projects, not the LT.

'However, the security services assessed that Rehman raises considerably larger
sums, that the money is for the MDI and that he is aware that these funds are
used for military operations.' The MI5 officer who interviewed Rehman at the
airport admitted there had been plans to recruit him as an agent. Hidden behind
a screen and identified only as Witness I he said: 'It was part of our plan and
had it worked it would have been a good plan.' Witness I, a specialist in
recruiting informers, said under questioning: 'Speculatively, had it turned out
that Mr Rehman wanted to talk to the police or to me, then clearly we would have
accepted it gladly.

'If he were to have become an agent, which did not happen, then that would have
happened a long time after the interview. It might have led to him being an
agent but the purpose of that interview was not to immediately recruit him as an
agent or informer.' Rehman's lawyer Sibghat Kadri QC, said it was this failed
attempt that sealed his client's fate. 'He was punished with deportation because
he didn't want to become your agent,' he said. He also accused MI5 of enforcing
an inconsistent policy towards radical Moslem groups in Britain.

The hearing continues.


LOAD-DATE: August 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              373 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            August 17, 1999, Tuesday

MI5 LINKED TO CLERIC FIGHTING DEPORTATION

BYLINE: Ian Herbert Northern Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 500 words


A YOUNG Pakistani cleric facing deportation as an alleged terrorist mastermind
was approached to become a spy for the Security Services.

Shafiq ur Rehman, 28, who is fighting to overturn an expulsion order made by the
Home Secretary, Jack Straw, on the recommendation of MI5, turned down the
approach from a Security Service officer in 1997.

Mr Rehman, from Oldham, Greater Manchester, is accused of heading the British
arm of a front organisation for a rebel Mujahideen group fighting in the
disputed north Indian territory of Kashmir- the scene of bloody clashes between
Indians and Pakistan-backed fighters in recent weeks.

He has allegedly raised thousands of pounds for the Lashkar Tayyaba (LT) group
involved in the insurrection close to the Pakistani border and arranged for
young British Muslims to be sent to Jihad or Holy War training camps run by LT
near the Pakistani city of Lahore.

Lawyers for Mr Rehman, who came to Britain from his home near Lahore in 1993 and
has two children, argued that his decision not to help MI5 was now being used
against him. Sibghat Kadri QC, said: "He has been punished for his refusal not
to become an informer. If is for that reason, among others, that he is being
deported."

The landmark case is believed to be the first heard by the newly established
Special Immigration Appeals Commission, set up last year to adjudicate on
deportation orders made by the Home Office on national security grounds.

A High Court Judge, Justice Sir Humphrey Potts, who sat on the trial of the war
criminal Anthony Sawoniuk earlier this year, is hearing the four-day appeal at
the headquarters of the Immigration Appellate Authority in King's Cross, London.

Mr Rehman's lawyers claim he works for a political and cultural group known as
MDI, or the Centre for Invitation to the Divine Teaching, which raises funds for
schools and universities in the Punjab area. Although acknowledging MDI has
links with the Mujahideen force LT, Mr Rehman claims he was not involved in
securing cash for terrorist purposes. And while he is not accused of conducting
terror activities in Britain, MI6 says his work could still pose a threat to
national security.

A Home Office submission to the hearing said: "Mr Rehman has been partly
responsible for an increase in the number of Muslims in the UK who have
undergone some form of militant training, including indoctrination into extreme
beliefs and at least some basic weapons handling.

"The Security Service is also concerned that the presence of returned Jihad
trainees in the UK may encourage the radicalisation of the British Muslim
community.

"Mr Rehman's activities in the UK are intended to further the cause of a
terrorist organisation abroad."

Mr Kadri accused the head of the security service branch monitoring terror
activity in the Indian sub-continent, identified only as Witness J, of enforcing
an unfair policy towards radical Muslim groups in Britain.

The appeal continues.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Rehman: Landmark case

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              374 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 19, 1999, Thursday

JUST SHOOT AN ASSASSIN ONCE.. OR HE COULD SUE - ORDER TO POLICE GUN GUARDS;
 DEATH ON THE STREET PC PAT HODGSON WAS CHARGED WITH MURDER AFTER TWICE SHOOTING
DAVID EWIN WHO WAS DRIVING A STOLEN CAR IN BARNES, WEST LONDON. PC HODGSON WAS
LATER ACQUITTED.

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards, Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 411 words


ARMED police bodyguards protecting the Royal Family and the Prime Minister have
new orders - to fire only one shot at an attacker in case he sues for damages.

Scotland Yard chiefs fear officers in the Royal and Diplomatic Protection Squads
who use the traditional method of firing twice in rapid succession - known as
"double tap" - could face accusations of using unnecessary force. So they have
asked the Met's world famous blue beret firearms instructors to teach a new
technique known as SSA - second shot assessment.

This forces the officer to assess the stopping power of his first shot before
firing again.

Now the Yard will train all 3,000 personnel qualified as authorised firearms
officers to use SSA. And most of Britain's 56 regional police forces are
expected to follow suit.

But many police gun experts are unhappy with the changes.

One officer, who has guarded the Royals and senior politicians, said: "Double
tap is the most effective way of stopping someone coming at you with deadly
intent.

"If I'm guarding the Prime Minister from an armed terrorist, the attacker may
have opened fire and killed the PM before I have time to see if my first shot is
successful."

Yard chiefs decided to review the system after a firearms officer fatally
wounded an unarmed man in a stolen car. PC Pat Hodgson shot David Ewin, 38,
twice in the chest in west London in 1995.

Ewin had a long record as an armed robber but Hodgson, who became the first
firearms officer to be charged with murder while on duty, wasn't aware of that
when he shot him.

The officer was finally cleared at a third trial after two juries failed to
reach a verdict.

A senior officer said: "More people are suing the police so we must be beyond
criticism.

"Any officer who shoots twice, with fatal results, stands a chance of being
charged with murder even if he's only doing his duty.

"We don't think scrapping double tap will put more people at risk."

But Steve Collins, a former police firearms specialist and best-selling author,
said: "Double Tap is ideal for situations in which you may not have time to get
off an aimed shot and where the priority is to make sure you stop a deadly
threat at close quarters."

He added: "Firearms officers will now have to observe the effect of their first
shot - whether it has hit and stopped its target - before firing again.

"But many threats at close quarter wouldn't leave you time for that."

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: THE SCENE: Medics rush Ewin to hospital; DIED: David Ewin; SHOTS:; PC
Hodgson; PROTECTION: Charles

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              375 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Nottingham Evening Post

                                August 23, 1999

Buses and bombs are in crisis

BYLINE: Bygones With David Mcvay

SECTION: Bygones, Pg.20

LENGTH: 353 words


On this day... 1973

BRITAIN was put on bomb alert today as the IRA stepped up their campaign of
terror and violence on the mainland.

The main devices being used were letter and fire bombs and it appeared the focus
of attention centred on London and its world-famous West End shopping centres.

In the capital alone, seven letter bombs were delivered and Scotland Yard warned
the public not to handle any suspicious packages.

Targets included the Central Office of Information, the RAF Association, the
British Legion on Pall Mall and the Ministry of the Environment.

On Regent Street, a thousand staff were evacuated from Dickins and Jones
department store after a 'cigarette packet' incendiary was found in a ground
floor fabric department.

The premises of Marshall and Snelgrove on Oxford Street were also evacuated and
it was a similar story throughout the West End.

These followed a bomb blast in a Hampstead shopping precinct the previous
evening adding to fears that the terrorists would spread their net.

It was already known that IRA Provisionals had visited London earlier in the
year to make contact with an Angry Brigade -type organisation.

THERE was little hope of the buses running on time - if ever - judging from a
pioneering scheme in the city. Nottingham Corporation fostered ideas that all
our public transport problems could be solved by electricity.

Thus they took charge of a 23-passenger bus, a no.88, that served the Central
Area. It had a top speed of 25mph - when mobile that was.

"When it comes to a gradient - even minor ones in Nottingham - you almost have
to get out and push it," said Mr John Wake, the city transport manager.

The bus, which had been loaned by the Department of Trade and Industry for
trials, had a maximum range of 40 miles which meant it had to be taken off the
road after four and half hours work.

"There is no future for this particular type of bus," added Mr Wake. Could this
be a lesson from the past for the future grand design whereby an electric tram
system is regarded as the panacea for our traffic woes - at least by the local
councillors.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 Nottingham Evening Post

                              376 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                August 23, 1999

Brighton outrage... IRA bombers attack the heart of government

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 2279 words


FEROCIOUS gales blow in the New Year in Britain... gusts of up to 80mph are
recorded in the Westcountry, with trees toppling in their wake, cutting off
power supplies, crushing cars and smashing windows. On the Tamar Bridge, the
centre lane is closed when it is feared cars will blow into each other.

Across the country, it's reported in mid-January, at least six have died in
hurricane -force winds reaching 105mph in some areas, and floods leave hundreds
homeless.

There is little abatement as the month progresses, and in a violent storm 60
miles off Penzance two merchant officers are overturned five times in their 33ft
yacht. They say they are lucky to be alive, scooped from a roaring sea by Royal
Naval rescue services and taken to Culdrose suffering from shock and exposure.
Other Sea King crews are out searching for survivors of the freighter Radiant
Med, sunk off Guernsey with the loss of 17 lives.

Waves of a political nature also make headlines in January when the daughter of
two Plymstock doctors is suddenly splashed across the papers.  Twenty-three-year
-old Sarah Tisdall, daughter of Michael and Jennifer Tisdall and a clerk at the
Foreign Office, is charged under the Official Secrets Act with passing a secret
document to The Guardian about the arrival of cruise missiles. When she is
jailed for six months in March, politicians, peace campaigners and journalists
react with horror to the harsh sentence. Sarah says she is not against nuclear
weapons but felt the public had a right to know what was going on.

Later, visiting her at Holloway Prison, Liberal MPs learn she has received
hundreds of letters of support and offers of jobs. Though she spends a good deal
of time cleaning floors, Sarah reports she is being treated reasonably and has
no complaints. Scottish MP Archie Kirkwood says: "Sarah is a very impressive
young lady". She will be refused leave to appeal against her sentence but should
qualify for remission.

February brings thrills for ice skating fans and particular pride for Nottingham
when ice dance skaters Jayne Torvill and Christopher Dean give the greatest
performance of their lives to take Olympic gold at Sarajevo. On St Valentine's
Day, the pair turn in a stunning routine to Ravel's Bolero, a passionate and
sensuous free dance which touches such heights of perfection that all nine
judges award them maximum points for artistic impression, and three award
another top score for technical merit. Curiosity is now soaring as to whether
the couple, who gave up their day jobs in 1980 to skate full time, will complete
their victory by marrying.

Striking miners are frontline news as violence flares in their ranks in March.
While the National Coal Board tries to stop flying pickets from Yorkshire
staking out pits in other areas to intensify the strike, hundreds of them move
into Nottinghamshire and halt production in the entire South Wales coalfield.
The current action, over pay, job cuts and threatened pit closures, has left 104
of the country's 174 mines at a standstill. Moderate miners' leaders,
representing 80,000 workers in the still-working pits, fear violence and
intimidation will escalate.

Mrs Thatcher tells the Commons she believes that an "overwhelming majority" of
people and miners would support police action to deal with picket -line
intimidation.

In Nottinghamshire, the country's second largest coalfield and the focus of
attention in mid-March, resistance to striking without a national ballot is
strong and many pitmen are still working, leading to vicious confrontation
between pickets and police. Amidst the furore, one flying picket dies outside
Ollerton colliery, intensifying the bitterness of the dispute - several others
will die before it is over.

In April, 100 are arrested at Nottinghamshire and Derbyshire pits, and in May
many police and picketing miners are injured in pitched battles at Yorkshire's
Orgreave coking plant. Mounted police charge to restore order. NUM president
Arthur Scargill, at the centre of the dispute, describes Yorkshire as "a police
state". Autumn will witness further inflamed scenes at Maltby colliery, near
Rotherham, and the freezing of NUM funds by the High Court which rules the
strike illegal. By the end of the year many miners will be making their way back
to work, but the strike will rumble on until next spring.

Further fury erupts in April when a young policewoman is fatally wounded by
gunmen at the Libyan Embassy in London spraying machine-gun fire on the crowd
outside. WPC Yvonne Fletcher, 25, is killed while policing a small student
demonstration outside the People's Bureau in St James's Square. The incident is
described as a "barbaric outrage" by Home Secretary Leon Brittan, and public
anger intensifies when TV carries pictures of Yvonne's discarded hat, left on
the pavement outside the building, and the perpetrators are allowed to leave the
country - Mr Brittan says he has no means of identifying Yvonne's killer. One
journalist who reports as an eyewitness describes the scene: "What seemed like a
firecracker exploded. I saw bullets hit the pavement and a policewoman in front
of me crumbled to the floor clutching her stomach..." Ten others are also
wounded in the incident, after which Libya accuses the British government of
staging a terrorist attack on its embassy and diplomatic relations with Colonel
Gadaffi's regime are broken off.

Yvonne Fletcher's mother, who lives in Shaftesbury, Dorset, later tearfully
recounts how her daughter had wanted to join the police force from the age of
three and had persisted, even though she was deemed under the minimum height.
Poignantly, her fiance, PC Michael Liddle, was also involved in the embassy
siege and cradled her as the ambulance sped to the hospital where she died.

One of the best-loved of our Poet Laureates, Sir John Betjeman, dies in May at
his Cornish holiday home at Trebetherick, overlooking Padstow Bay. Aged 78, the
poet will be buried at the tiny St Enodoc's church close by, where he worshipped
for much of his life. "Sir John loved the area and he was very much loved," says
the Rev Anthony Gent, who will conduct the service. Sir John had been coming
down to Cornwall from boyhood when his parents retired, and his mother is also
buried here.

Television brought his work to an audience of millions and he used his following
to help protect beautiful places against the onslaught of developers and
building speculators. He also fought for the preservation of old buildings from
what he described as "ghastly good taste". A memorial service is to be held in
London. Sir John will be succeeded by a Laureate with a very different style,
Ted Hughes.

June recalls D-Day, and as ceremonies in Britain, France and throughout the
Westcountry mark the 40th anniversary of the Normandy landings in World War II,
residents of a quiet corner of Devon are remembering their own special
experiences of that fateful time. They are the ones who were forced out of their
homes to make way for American servicemen at Slapton and surrounding villages -
now they welcome US war veterans back with warm handshakes and "the odd tear". A
moving ceremony takes place on Slapton sands, where the crucial training
exercises took place, and among those gathered on the beach are 900 of the
original South Hams residents and families who left their homes and farms for
almost a year. The focal point is a 30ft granite memorial presented after the
war by the US government to mark their "very special sacrifices".

Controversy follows the installing in July of the Rt Rev Dr David Jenkins as
Bishop of Durham - his liberal attitudes on Christianity, his questioning of the
virgin birth and resurrection, as well as his meddling in politics, will earn
him many enemies. But a mere three days after his consecration his critics scale
the heights of fancy by blaming him for a bolt of lightning that rips through
York Minster and starts a devastating fire. As the south transept of the
700-year-old cathedral is destroyed and many treasures ruined, Dr Jenkins must
feel flattered that he is seen to wield so much power. The Archbishop of
Canterbury, Dr Runcie, however, pooh-poohs such nonsense, pronouncing it a
miracle that worse damage was not done. The damage does, however, amount to
around GBP 1 million and, though the cathedral was well insured, an additional
fund for public donations is being set up.

Happy news is once more delighting the populace in September when Princess Diana
gives birth to her second son, Prince Henry, who will be known universally as
Harry. The third in line to the throne is welcomed into the world by a huge
crowd at St Mary's Hospital, Paddington, chanting "Hooray Harry!" and hundreds
of wellwishers line the route to Crathie church at Balmoral as the royals drive
to Sunday service. At Tetbury, Gloucestershire, locals celebrate near the
Wales's home at Highgrove House; and at Diana's family home, Althorp, the flag
is raised at the entrance to the historic house. A mere 22 hours after giving
birth, Diana and the new prince, Henry Charles Albert David, are on their way to
Kensington Palace. Prince Charles, meanwhile, is marking the occasion with a
game of polo at Windsor, where champagne is supped from paper cups.

But October sees dark days as terrorists and assassins strike with bomb and
bullet in attempts to topple governments in Britain and India.

In the same month that riots break out across India after the assassination of
Prime Minister Indira Gandhi by Sikh bodyguards, Brighton's Grand Hotel is the
target of the IRA. Somehow the terrorists slip through the security net
surrounding the Tory Party conference and come within a whisker of wiping out
Margaret Thatcher and her entire Cabinet. A bomb rips through the hotel at
2.45am as most of them are sleeping, and the Prime Minister narrowly escapes
death in the blast, which kills four and injures more than 30. Among the dead
are Westcountry Conservative Jeanne Shattock, wife of Gordon Shattock, the
Western Area Conservative chairman. Trade Minister Norman Tebbit and his wife
Margaret are freed from the rubble after plunging to the ground from a
demolished second-floor room - he is cushioned from falling masonry by a
mattress but Margaret is seriously injured. Chief Whip John Wakeham is buried
for six hours in the debris before being rescued. His wife is among the dead, as
is MP Sir Anthony Berry.

Two leading Westcountry Conservatives Margaret and John Fry who live near Lifton
have a miraculous escape because their fourth-floor room is near a fire escape.
Others from North Devon who were in the bar are unhurt apart from shock. Another
who cheats death is former WMN lobby correspondent L K Way staying at the Grand
with his wife. They joined others leaving by a fire escape and are shepherded
away by police. "The whole of the seafront seemed to be filled with ambulances
fire engines and tenders he reports. What seems to me miraculous was the speed
with which the firemen got a huge ladder virtually to the top of the Grand. It
is seven storeys high... Blankets and other comforts were brought out from other
hotels to help those suffering from shock... The Metropole Hotel next door
opened up a coffee stall and even opened their bar to serve brandy..." Marks &
Spencer came to the rescue with replacement clothes for those who had made a
hasty escape in night attire but would still be attending that conference that
day.

One hundred pounds of gelignite with a timed detonator were placed in a fifth
floor room designed to send tons of masonry crashing on to the premier's
first-floor suite. The enormous blast which destroyed four floors wrecked the
bathroom Mrs Thatcher had visited a mere two minutes earlier. Northern Ireland
Secretary James Prior says he suspects the device was planted by an IRA cell
which had been lying low in Britain for some time. Security measures will now be
closely scrutinised but North Devon MP Tony Speller who had left Brighton before
the blast points out that in a hotel open to the public no system can work 100
per cent.

Mrs Thatcher looking shaken but resolute at that day's conference is defiant.
She tells the party The fact that we are gathered here, shocked but composed and
determined, is a sign... that all attempts to destroy democracy by terrorism
will fail. As the IRA admits to the outrage it sneers: "Today we were unlucky
but remember we only have to be lucky once."

Terror is ever present though our world has not reached the frightful vision
presented in George Orwell's futuristic novel 1984 a ghastly picture of
totalitarianism where the individual is outlawed and the populace ruled by Big
Brother and the Thought Police. This year's filmed version provides a starring
role for John Hurt as Winston Smith who dares to resist the regime and a final
outlet for the somewhat squandered talents of Richard Burton who plays the
inquisitor O'Brien in his last film appearance.

Burton famed for his exquisite voice his marriages to Elizabeth Taylor and his
love of drink died of a stroke in August aged 58 one of several deaths this year
to leave the arts world the poorer. We also lost prominent actor James Mason at
75; major playwright and essayist J B Priestley 89; and beloved comic Eric
Morecambe 58 who collapsed off stage with a heart attack after taking copious
curtain calls at a charity event. When their TV show was at its height in the
1970s Eric and partner Ernie Wise drew audiences of 20 million - theirs was the
stuff of comedy legend.

- NEXT YEAR: 1985: Fire and riots scar the face of football; Gorbachev brings a
new era to the Soviet Union

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              377 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                August 23, 1999

There's always someone watching you . . .;
 ANALYSIS

BYLINE: PHIL GOULD

SECTION: Features, Pg.6

LENGTH: 1153 words


BIG Brother is watching you and it appears there's no escape. Speeding drivers
who slow down when they spot the menacing grey roadside box could soon be hit by
a 'smart' camera.

This revolutionary new device will be able to track cars with sensors, read
registration plates and log the vehicle's speed.

The SVDD (Speed Violation Detection Deterrent) system will be introduced on the
M2 in Kent next month following the recent success of trials on the M1 in
Leicestershire and the M20, also in Kent. If the experiment is successful it
could even spread to the rest of the country.

But it doesn't end there. Trials also start next month of mobile cameras
designed to catch car tax cheats. These cameras will be able to detect untaxed
vehicles anywhere at any time. It seems that being watched by a camera has now
become part and parcel of our everyday lives. In recent years they have appeared
everywhere from roads to shops and offices to town centres.

Britain currently has more than one million CCTV cameras and the number is
increasing all the time. Experts believe that the average person in a big city
could be filmed on up to 300 cameras in a single day.

Perhaps the most scrutinised area in Britain is the city of London which
surrounded itself in a 'ring of steel' following the IRA bombs of 1992 and 1993.
Cameras mounted at entry points take snapshots of number plates and identify
suspect vehicles in the space of four seconds.

This system has led to more than 500 arrests since it was introduced in February
1997. In one case an alleged rapist was arrested after driving through the city
- police had been searching for him for more than two years.

In June the Government launched a 153 million scheme to install security cameras
in some of the most crime ridden areas of England and Wales. The first stage
involves giving 50 million to councils and police forces to keep watch on town
centres, car parks and trouble spots.

Advocates of using CCTV are quick to point out the benefits. Jack Straw, the
Home Secretary says: ''Closed circuit television is a very valuable weapon in
the fight against crime. In effect, we have traded some of our rights to privacy
in public spaces for increased security. Most of us think this is a price worth
paying.

''The presence of CCTV has brought both reassurance and real reductions in crime
- and has become a key tool in bringing to justice some of the most serious
criminals.''

The investigation into the murder of television personality Jill Dando brought
home just how pervasive CCTV cameras have become.

Detectives used images snapped by cameras to recreate the late presenter's
journey back to her Fulham home in the hours leading up to her death.

More than 85per cent of councils around Britain now have security cameras as
their main crime prevention tool.

And in the past five years closed circuit cameras have become increasingly
favoured by police as a method of identifying criminals. It's cheaper than
sending officers on the beat and acts as a deterrent against would- be
criminals.

Stirling Council in Scotland has reported a 75 per cent drop in crime since it
introduced CCTV three years ago and Bournemouth reported a reduction in
vandalism costs from 220,000 to 36,000 after cameras were installed along the
sea front.

And in Newcastle upon Tyne researchers found that during the first 15 months of
CCTV there was a dramatic drop in city centre crime. Between the end of 1991 and
1994 assaults fell by 11 per cent, muggings by seven per cent and burglaries by
49 per cent.

Almost all of the 400 people arrested admitted their guilt after being shown
video footage. And the use of cameras has even impinged on the pop world. In the
video for her debut single If You Had My Love, Latin pop star Jennifer Lopez
salsas while being watched by a barrage of cameras feeding shots out to viewers
on the Internet.

Veteran pop star Cher exploited a similar ploy in the video for her recent hit
All Or Nothing, as did Semisonic for their Top 20 hit Secret Smile.

Nigel Whiskin, chief executive of Crime Concern, says: ''The use of cameras is
one of the growing arsenal of tools which is being used to act as a deterrent
against would-be criminals.

''In the right place it can be very effective. It is useful in reassuring the
public and there is evidence that it acts as something of a deterrent against
people committing crime.

''It has certainly been valuable in helping police secure more convictions from
evidence gained by CCTV. However, it is only one tool in a huge range of other
measures which can be employed to prevent and reduce crime.''

Last month a report by the Scottish office concluded that CCTV had not succeeded
in making the streets safer or in making people feel safer.

The research, carried out in Glasgow over two years, revealed that in the first
year after CCTV was introduced crime rose by 9 per cent.

And a four-year study in Wales of three areas with CCTV cameras showed that
although violent incidents dropped by 12 per cent in Cardiff after the
introduction of CCTV, incidents rose by 3 per cent in Swansea and by 45 per cent
in the coastal resort of Rhyl.

James Ditton, professor of criminology at Sheffield University, who led the
Scottish research, says he believes the results should open up debate on cameras
in our lives and how they are regulated.

''What we have been able to show is that CCTV didn't reduce crime - if anything
it increased - and it didn't reduce fear of crime. If anything there was a
slight increase in anxiety.''

John Wadham, director of Liberty, feels there needs to be more regulation over
the use of surveillance.

He says: ''Most people tolerate the downside of being under surveillance because
they believe it means people will be caught for terrible crimes. But in this
country anyone can point a camera in any direction, record any material, copy it
and give it to whoever they want. Nobody has control over that.''

More sinister, it seems, than speed cameras or CCTV surveillance, are cameras
used at work to spy on employees. Earlier this year unions threatened Birmingham
city council with industrial action after the council bought cameras and used
them to film employee conversations.

Guy Dehn, of Public Concern at Work, says calls to the organisation's helpline
show surveillance is a growing problem: ''Several people have contacted us to
say that they have found video cameras hidden in smoke detectors. These
discoveries antagonise employees and undermine any sense of trust in the work
place.

''Covert surveillance should be regarded as unlawful according to the Data
Protection Registrar and should not be allowed unless it is being used to detect
crime. We tend to back that view - because if nobody knows that cameras are
there and that they are being recorded it, doesn't have any deterrent value
anyway.''


LOAD-DATE: August 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              378 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            August 27, 1999, Friday

FROM THE PAST

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 354 words


200 YEARS AGO: The devastation occasioned in this neighbourhood and the more
northern counties by the late rains has been very great. Numbers of cattle have
been lost, mills and bridges have been washed away, canal embankments broken
down and it is impossible to calculate the quantity of mown grass that has been
carried off or spoilt by the waters.

Aris's Birmingham Gazette, August 1799.

100 YEARS AGO: Yesterday a painful sensation was caused throughout Dudley and
the neighbourhood by the intelligence of a disastrous gas explosion of a
remarkable character, which occurred late in the night at Netherton, involving
the deaths of two men and injuries to six other persons.

The Birmingham Daily Post, August 1899.

50 YEARS AGO: After shouts had interrupted a 'miracle healing' meeting held in
Birmingham Town Hall last night by 'Little David' Walker, a 15 year-old American
faith healer, a man was escorted from the building by ushers. The meeting was
attended by about 2,000 people.

The Birmingham Post, August 1949.

ON THIS DAY

Birthdays: German racing driver Gerhard Berger, 40; Australian cricketer Sir
Donald Bradman, 81; author Lady Antonia Fraser, 67; author Michael Holroyd, 64;
German golfer Bernhard Langer, 42; tennis player John Lloyd, 45; jockey Andy
Turnell, 51.

Anniversaries: 1784: First balloon ascent made in Britain by James Tytler at
Edinburgh; 1859: World's first oil drilled at Titusville, Pennsylvania; 1879:
Death of Sir Rowland Hill, founder of penny postage;1877: Birth of motor
manufacturer the Hon Charles Stewart Rolls; 1882: Birth of American film magnate
Samuel Goldwyn; 1910: Birth of missionary Mother Teresa; 1939: The Heinkel 178,
the world's first jet aircraft, flew for the first time; 1958: Russians launched
Sputnik 3 with two dogs on board; 1965: Death of Swiss architect Le Corbusier;
1979: Earl Mountbatten killed by IRA bomb on his boat Shadow V off the coast of
County Sligo, Ireland.

28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AX

Editorial: Tel 0121 236 3366. Fax: 0121 625 1105

THEME FOR THE DAY

Ian Hinton Andrew Jones Dawn Sweeney

LOAD-DATE: August 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              379 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            August 29, 1999, Sunday

EUREKA STREET BULLIES;
 IRISH AUTHOR OF TV DRAMA SAYS GROWING UP WAS MORE LIKE BASH ST

BYLINE: Joe Oliver

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 491 words


TOP IRISH author Robert McLiam Wilson knew how to handle playground bullies in
his school days - he did their homework for them.

And while he always charged a nominal 2p he admits: "I knew they wouldn't mess
around with me because that would cut off their supply."

Robert, now 35, is author of a controversial new drama set to explode on TV
screens next month.

The no-holds-barred BBC2 series Eureka Street was adapted from his savagely
satirical novel and features harrowing scenes of the aftermath of a terrorist
bomb.

The gun and bomb nightmare of the northern troubles was something that self
-confessed child swot Robert grew up with in the days when he was, in his own
words, "fat, ginger and freckled".

He also had a daily ritual - hurling bricks at British Army Saracens as they
returned to their base near his west Belfast home.

"That's what you did as a seven-year-old in the city," he recalled.

But his safety-first mechanism of doing homework for the tougher school elements
let him down when he passed his 11-plus and secured a place at St Mary's Grammar
School on the Glen Road.

"I got the hell kicked out of me in school. But it was nothing to what happened
when we got out and other lads got a crack at us grammar school boys. They
practically had checkpoints. They would stop us, knock us about and take what we
had.

"It was unbelievable."

Robert got poor A-level results at St Malachy's College but his bacon was saved
by Canon Patrick Walsh - now Bishop - who, in an act of faith, allowed him to
sit the entrance examination for Cambridge University.

He eventually moved to England at 18 and read English at St Catherine's College.

Robert has written three novels, Ripley Bogle, which was published when he was
just 24, Manfred's Pain and Eureka Street, in addition to the Dispossessed, a
non-fiction book about poverty in Britain's inner cities in the 1990s.

Eureka Street has become a major bestseller and has been translated into 14
different languages.

Robert, who now lives in Belfast with his wife Mary Ann, is unworried at the
controversy that the BBC Northern Ireland adaption of Eureka Street seems
certain to spark.

Apart from the shock of the bomb scene there is a surfeit of X-rated language in
the darkly comic depiction of the corrosive effects of sectarianism.

Delighted

But Robert, currently writing a new novel called The Inflatable Citizen, was
delighted when he saw a preview.

"I was completely blown away. I thought it was absolutely brilliant and much,
much better than I could have hoped," he added.

The BBC is already bracing itself for an avalanche of criticism over the four
-part series which begins in the middle of next month.

A Beeb spokesman admitted yesterday that it may not be to everyone's taste but
added: "It's aimed at the 30-something audience, the sort of young professional
people who have read and enjoyed the book."

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AS IT WAS: Eureka Street captures the essence of life in Belfast

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              380 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 2, 1999

THE PEACE PROCESS HANGS BY A THREAD

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 562 words


hangs by a thread NEVER before in mainstream politics has Tony Blair been
savaged with such ferocity over Ulster's peace process. In a coruscating attack
on Government inaction in the face of continuing IRA violence, William Hague
accuses the Prime Minister of a 'betrayal of trust'.

The Tory leader's words may strain the bipartisan approach on Northern Ireland
to breaking point. But they reflect a growing outrage in the Tory Party and the
country at the way gangsters are being appeased at every turn.

And at the way Britain is being mocked.

Take the way the IRA responded when Ulster Secretary Mo Mowlam ruled against the
evidence that the 'ceasefire' has not broken down. Far from lying low, it very
publicly began ordering teenagers to leave Ireland or take a bullet in the back
of the head. Over the weekend, five alleged young tearaways were forced to flee
from an organisation that has appointed itself judge, jury and executioner.

But then, the terrorists have reason to believe that the Government won't do
anything about it.

Since the Good Friday deal, the IRA and loyalist gangs between them have
perpetrated eight murders, 133 shootings, 323 'punishment beatings' and ordered
more than 800 people into forced exile.

Some ceasefire.

How has the Government reacted?

Terrorist prisoners are still being freed early despite the Prime Minister's
pledge that a 'complete and unequivocal ceasefire' was a condition of their
release.

Ministers fear that if they take a robust line, Sinn Fein will just walk out and
the whole peace process will collapse.

But if gangsterism flourishes, real peace becomes impossible. Trust between the
communities will break down. And law-abiding citizens will feel with some
justification that they have been abandoned to thugs in balaclava masks.

Next week sees another attempt at a settlement. Every decent person will pray
for a successful outcome. But we cannot allow a pack of savages to dictate the
pace of progress. The time for pretence is over.

Prescott at bay HAVING bodged and blundered and made a dog's dinner of sorting
out Britain's chaotic transport system, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott
faces new humiliation over his plans to protect the country's precious green
belt.

A scathing report from the Labour-dominated Commons Environment Committee
declares that his scheme to ensure that 60 per cent of new houses are built on
inner-city 'brownfield' sites is unclear, uncertain and unsatisfactory.

Indeed, so shambolic is his department that there still seems to be financial
encouragement for developers to build in the unspoilt countryside.

The committee suggests in no uncertain terms that he gets his act together.

Indeed. When mistakes over transport are made, there is at least a chance that
they can be put right. Mistakes over strategic planning decisions can blight the
country for decades. John Prescott is an increasing liability.

Sign of the times ONE report in today's Mail speaks volumes. Norfolk farmer Tony
Martin accused of murdering a teenager who was said to have been trying to break
into his home has just been refused bail.

But the two men arrested on suspicion of attempting to burgle his house have
been released without charge on police bail, until later this month.

Welcome to the wonders of British justice.


LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              381 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 2, 1999

Unionist policy incites violence

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 755 words


I GREATLY appreciate The Herald's policy of "letting a thousand flowers bloom",
even when the occasional poisonous weed turns up, like John Macleod's article
today, Beyond the rule of law.

I write as an atheist who has no connections - religious, political, or family -
with Northern Ireland, to express my distaste for his foam-flecked, utterly
one-sided jeremiad which insults the Roman Catholic Church and condemns as
"murdering criminals" those who, with John Hume, put forward proposals "which
eventually led to the Good Friday agreement", as you say on page two: "Hume
recovers as friends tell of stress".

Your stablemate (Sunday, August 29) reports honestly, as Macleod does not, the
litany of mayhem in Northern Ireland since the Good Friday agreement in April
1998: "61 IRA shootings, 71 loyalist shootings, 152 IRA beatings, 171 loyalist
beatings, 436 people forced into exile by the IRA and 379 people exiled by
loyalists. Because of paramilitary intimidation 1606 families have had to be
rehoused". Today (page one) you report "sectarian pipe-bomb attacks against
Catholic families and church property in County Antrim".

No-one can be other than deeply unhappy at this state of affairs in a part of
Britain, but it can only be aggravated by such one-sided articles as John
Macleod's. Unionists and nationalists simply must learn to live together as we
do in the rest of Britain, on a footing of equality.

The electoral register shows that quite soon the Unionists will not even have
electoral majority support for triumphalist domination. Their present policies,
mirrored in Macleod's article, can only lead to a resumption of violence dreaded
by the vast majority of the people in Northern Ireland.

Andrew Lockhart Walker,

7 Lovers' Loan, Dollar.

August 31.

ON your front page today a prominent Ulster Unionist politician expresses
outrage and concern at the IRA's treatment of Roman Catholics. If the same
concern had been shown years ago when Roman Catholics were being discriminated
against by the self-same Unionists and were being treated by them as second
-class citizens, then perhaps now there would have been no IRA to contend
with.and the disastrous situation in Northern Ireland would not have arisen.

There is no point however in recriminations and counter-accusations. When is it
finally going to dawn on the British Establishment that there is no solution to
the problem of Northern Ireland as it is presently constituted? No matter how
many well-meaning platitudes are uttered by politicians and no matter how many
plans for the coexistence of the two traditions are drawn up and agreed to by
the respective governments of Great Britain and Ireland, large sections of the
two populations there will never find the way to live together peacefully. Their
opposing views are so deeply ingrained as to have become part of their genetic
inheritance and will never be eradicated.

Surely the events of the last few years show the impossibility of applying the
normal rules of reasoned argument to the closed minds of both traditions in the
Northern Ireland community.

On both sides, posturing self-righteous God-invoking flag-waving bigots with
minds set in cement still celebrate 300-year-old events, hold a community to
ransom in the process, and Britain continues to pour out countless millions of
the taxpayers' money in a vain attempt to keep some sort of order on the streets
of Ulster.

Enough should be enough. The partition of Ireland in 1921 was not sufficiently
thorough. Catholics should have been separated from Protestants as were the
Hindus and Moslems of India in 1948. Let there be another and final partition of
the land.

Those counties which are predominantly Catholic could be ceded to the Republic
of Ireland, and those predominantly Protestant could remain British. With
adequate compensation paid for loss of property, voluntary transfer of
populations could come about, and those Catholics who so wished could join their
brethren in the new counties and the Protestants could have their own
religiously pure enclave as part of the British mainland. The raison d'etre for
terrorism would have been eliminated and the people of Northern Ireland might
finally be able to live in peace.

The human and financial cost of such an undertaking would be enormous, but would
it be any greater than what has already been spent in the maintenance of the
present intolerable situation?

J Pieri,

8 Garngaber Avenue, Lenzie.

August 31.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              382 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 6, 1999

World News in 1986

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 948 words


JANUARY: The Royal Yacht Britannia is diverted to Aden to pick up hundreds of
refugees fleeing the strife which has followed an attempted coup. As Britain and
France finally agree to build a Channel Tunnel, many people in rural Kent oppose
it and ferry operators are threatening a price war. Soviet leader Gorbachev
outlines a plan to eliminate all nuclear arms by the year 2000.

FEBRUARY: In the Philippines, Ferdinand Marcos is toppled after 20 years of
corrupt rule - Corazon Aquino is sworn in as president. The USSR launches the
first permanent orbiting space station, Mir, with an international crew. Soviet
human rights activist Anatoly Shcharansky is freed from jail. In Haiti, dictator
Jean-Claude Duvalier - "Baby Doc" - is deposed and many of his notorious Tontons
Macoutes police are lynched. A huge Mafia trial being held in Palermo will
convict more than 300 gangsters.

MARCH: In France, an odd juxtaposition sees right-wing Jacques Chirac becoming
prime minister and ruling alongside socialist President Mitterand. In the UK, a
bedside candle starts a fire at Hampton Court Palace which kills one and
severely damages the south wing. Dying are British writer and broadcaster Sir
Huw Weldon at 69; British soldier Glubb Pasha, 88, commander of the Arab Legion
in World War Two; and film tough guy James Cagney, 86.

APRIL: US golfer Jack Nicklaus at 46 wins his sixth Masters title in Georgia, a
golfing record. A bomb wreaks havoc in a disco in West Berlin full of US
soldiers - two are known to be dead; America subsequently launches bomb attacks
on Libya which Mrs Thatcher backs. Jordanian Nezar Hindawi is arrested after
trying to plant a bomb on a jumbo jet using his girlfriend as a dupe. Dying are
French writers Simone de Beauvoir, 78, and Jean Genet, 75; English cricketer Jim
Laker, 64; and film director Otto Preminger, 79.

MAY: The world puts on its running shoes for Bob Geldof's Sportaid Race Against
Time to raise cash for Africa's starving. In the UK, cricket all -rounder Ian
Botham is banned from the game for two months after admitting he has smoked
cannabis; 150-1 outsider Joe Johnson becomes world snooker champion in
Sheffield. The leaders of seven industrial nations, including Britain, meet in
Tokyo to issue a declaration of war on international terrorism. Nepalese
mountaineer Sherpa Tensing, who conquered Everest with Edmund Hillary, dies at
72.

JUNE: Argentina wins the World Cup - controversially, their captain Diego
Maradona had helped beat England in the quarter final with a fisted goal,
christened "the hand of God". Dr Kurt Waldheim, former UN Secretary General, is
elected President of Austria. In the UK, Deputy Chief Constable of Manchester
John Stalker is suspended after allegations that he has associated with "known
criminals". Patrick Magee is given eight life sentences for the Brighton bombing
and other offences. Actress Dame Anna Neagle dies at 81.

JULY: In Britain, newspapers are barred from publishing information by former
MI5 officer Peter Wright - the government is trying to stop publication of his
memoirs. Pop star Boy George is convicted of possessing heroin. There are huge
celebrations in New York to mark the 100th anniversary of the Statue of Liberty.

AUGUST: A deadly gas escapes from volcanic Lake Nios in Cameroons, West Africa,
killing 1,500 in lakeside villages. Riots flare in Pakistan as supporters of
Benazir Bhutto demonstrate against the regime of President Zia. Manchester
United and West Ham football fans fight a pitched battle on board a ferry in the
English Channel. Renowned British sculptor Henry Moore dies at 88.

SEPTEMBER: On TV, Prince Charles causes a stir by admitting that he talks to
plants. Also in the UK, Japanese car firm Nissan opens a factory near
Sunderland, providing 2,000 jobs. Batsman Geoffrey Boycott is fired at 45 by
Yorkshire, despite his prodigious scoring ability. Bombs are hurled into Paris
streets by Arab terrorists after premier Jacques Chirac announces tough measures
against terrorism. Desmond Tutu is enthroned as Archbishop of Cape Town. Former
Coronation Street actress Pat Phoenix dies of cancer a week after marrying actor
Tony Booth.

OCTOBER: The Queen is the first British monarch to visit China and is told by
President Li Xiannian it is "a glorious chapter" in Sino-British relations. US
President Reagan and Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev meet in Reykjavik but
disagree over the US "Star Wars" programme. In the UK, Tory Party deputy
chairman Jeffrey Archer resigns over allegations that he tried to pay off a
prostitute, saying that he had fallen into a trap. Jeremy Bamber is jailed for
life for killing five members of his family.

NOVEMBER: New York boxer Mike Tyson becomes the youngest world heavyweight
champion at 20. Forty-five are killed when a helicopter carrying Shell oil
workers crashes into the North Sea near the Shetlands. Share prices tumble after
New York financier Ivan Boesky admits to "insider dealing" on the stock
exchange. British church envoy Terry Waite helps to secure the release of
American hostage David Jacobsen from Beirut, sparking the "Irangate" scandal in
the US.

DECEMBER: Soviet dissident Dr Andrei Sakharov is released from exile in Gorky.
US aviators Richard Rutan and Jeana Yeager make history by flying a lightweight
aircraft round the world non-stop on one tank of fuel. In the UK, jockey Lester
Piggott is arrested on a tax fraud charge. For the first time, an African
writer, Nigerian Wole Soyinka, wins the Nobel Prize for Literature; this year's
Booker Prize goes to British writer Kingsley Amis for The Old Devils. Former
Prime Minister Harold Macmillan, Earl of Stockton, dies at 92.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              383 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 10, 1999, Friday

PATTEN REPORT: HUMAN RIGHTS AND NEW OPENESS AT CENTRE OF REPORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1881 words


The following is a precis of the Patten report's major recommendations:

Human rights

THERE SHOULD be a comprehensive programme of action to focus policing on a
human-rights based approach. It is a central proposition of this report that the
fundamental purpose of policing should be, in the words of the Good Friday
Agreement, the protection and vindication of the human rights of all. Upholding
human rights and upholding the law should be one and the same thing.

The importance of human rights as the very purpose of policing should be
instilled in every officer from the start. We recommend a new oath for all new
and existing officers, promising to "uphold fundamental human rights and accord
equal respect to all individuals and their traditions and beliefs".

The human-rights dimension should be integrated into every module of police
training. A lawyer with specific expertise in the field of human rights should
be appointed to the staff of the police legal service.

Accountability

PAST ARRANGEMENTS have not held the police adequately accountable. There needs
to be a culture of openness and transparency in which police officers as a
matter of instinct disseminate information about their work. The prevailing
instinct at present is defensive, re-active and cautious in response to
questions - as we experienced ourselves in relation to some of our own
inquiries.

We are in no doubt that the RUC has had several officers within its ranks over
the years who have abused their position. It is not satisfactory to suggest, as
some people have, that one should somehow accept that every organisation has
"bad apples." They should be dealt with.

Policing Board

AN ENTIRELY new Policing Board should be created, with the statutory primary
function of holding the Chief Constable and the police service publicly to
account. It should set objectives and priorities for policing over a three to
five-year period. The first chairman of the Board will be a crucial figure, and
should be of high quality and standing in the community.

The Board must command respect and credibility and must have real power and
responsibility. A majority elected membership is essential to this objective. It
should have 19 members, 10 of whom should be members of the Northern Ireland
Assembly, elected on the same basis as the Northern Ireland Executive. (This
would provide five Unionist members, three from the SDLP and two from Sinn
Fein.) Responsibility for policing should be devolved to the Executive as soon
as possible, except for matters of national security.

The Chief Constable should be deemed to have operational responsibility for the
exercise of his or her functions. The respective roles of the Northern Ireland
Secretary, the Policing Board and the Chief Constable should be clarified in
legislation.

The Board should meet in public once a month to receive a report from the Chief
Constable. The presumption should be that everything should be available for
public scrutiny unless it is in the public interest - not in the police interest
- to hold it back.

Partnership Boards

EACH OF the 26 district councils should establish a District Policing
Partnership Board with a majority elected membership. The boards should
represent the consumer, voice the concerns of citizens and monitor the
performance of the police in their districts.

Police ombudsman

THE OMBUDSMAN who is to take up office shortly should be an important
institution and should be staffed and resourced accordingly. He should have a
dynamic co-operative relationship with both the police and the Policing Board.

Covert policing

THERE SHOULD be a commissioner for covert law enforcement, who would be a senior
judicial figure with powers to inspect the police and other agencies to provide
comprehensive independent scrutiny.

Community policing

THIS MEANS the police working in partnership with the community and the
community thereby participating in its own policing. What we emphatically do not
mean by community policing is vigilante groups policing neighbourhoods with
baseball bats.

The present policing style of the RUC has been greatly distorted by the security
situation, to the frustration of both police and public. As presently organised,
the police service is not well geared towards community partnership policing,
but rather to a more re-active style of policing.

Policing with the community should be the core function of the police service
and the core function of every police station. Members of the policing team
should serve at least three years in the same neighbourhood, and they should
wear on their uniforms their names and the name of their locality. Where
practicable, policing teams should patrol on foot.

Policing in a

peaceful society

IT IS not yet possible to say that Northern Ireland has been transformed into a
peaceful society, but despite the continuing menace of paramilitary capability
the situation has changed sufficiently to allow changes in the way policing
services are delivered.

Police stations should, subject to the security situation, be progressively made
less forbidding and more accessible. For example, civilian receptionists could
replace police officers. Police cars should continue to be substituted for
armoured Land Rovers, while the Army's role should continue to be reduced. The
three holding (interrogation) centres should be closed forthwith.

Public order

THE POLICE should have the capacity within their own establishment to deal with
public order emergencies. Plastic bullets should continue to be available,
though an alternative to them should be urgently sought.

Management

THERE ARE many layers of management in the RUC, with elaborate structures, which
mean it is no surprise to find the management style hierarchical and
bureaucratic. The frustrations of middle management are evident: one
superintendent spent months getting approval to buy a chair and a hand- held
tape recorder and another told us he was required to use outside contractors to
change light bulbs. We recommend that district commanders be given greatly
increased authority, with the number of Assistant Chief Constables reduced from
12 to six.

We recommend a rigorous programme of civilianisation of jobs which do not
require police powers, training or experience.

We met many officers who had been disabled as a result of terrorist attacks. We
do not believe that these officers have been treated as well as they should have
been by the police service or by the welfare services. In the early years of the
Troubles, claims were settled for derisory sums of money and the widows of some
officers are now living in penury. A substantial fund should be set up to help
those injured and their families, and also police widows.

Special Branch

THE BRANCH consists of about 850 officers, about 10 per cent of the regular
force strength. Serving and retired police officers were among those who
described it to us as "a force within a force". A common observation was that
local commanders often knew very little about the activities of the Branch in
their areas.

We do not think this is healthy or that the size of the Branch is justified. Its
size should be reduced and it and the CID should be placed under the command of
a single Assistant Chief Constable. Officers should not spend such long periods,
of 15 or 20 years or more, in security work.

Size

WE FOUND virtually no dissent from the view that, if the Good Friday Agreement
holds and a more peaceful society results, police numbers should be
substantially reduced. The approximate size of the force should be reduced from
the present total of 8,500 regulars and 4,200 reservists to 7,500 full-time
officers.

This level of policing, at one officer per 220 head of population, is high
compared with the rest of the UK and is comparable with that of New York. Our
model assumed that all retirements from the regulars will be on a voluntary
basis, with a normal early- retirement age of 50; that an estimated 80 per cent
of regular officers aged 50 and above will take the early-retirement offer; and
that around 800 officers under the age of 50 will take a new early-retirement
package. The early-retirement package should include a generous lump sum and
enhanced pension payments. The full -time Reserve, which has 2,900 members,
should be disbanded.

Composition

THE RUC is not representative. Only 8 per cent of its officers are Catholic and
only 12 per cent are women. Real community policing is impossible if the
composition of the police service bears little relationship to the composition
of the community as a whole.

We recommend a recruitment profile of 50 per cent Protestants and 50 per cent
Catholics over a 10-year period, a proportion that reflects the demographic
breakdown of people now in their 20s. This would lead to the proportion of
Catholic officers more than doubling within four years, and quadrupling within
10 years to around 30 per cent.

The part-time Reserve, which has 1,300 members, but particularly low membership
in Catholic areas, should be enlarged with 1,000 extra Catholic members.

Recruitment

THE KEY to making the police service representative lies in community leaders
actively encouraging their young people to join. All political party leaders,
bishops and priests, schoolteachers and sports authorities, should encourage
this. The recruitment process should be contracted out from the police to an
agency which should advertise not only in Northern Ireland but in the rest of
the UK and the Republic of Ireland. There should be a high degree of civilian
input into recruitment and training.

Membership of organisations such as the Orange Order and the Masons should not
be a bar to police membership, but all officers should be obliged to register
their interests and associations.

Culture, ethos and symbols

THE RUC has remained somewhat militaristic and hierarchical. A new beginning
cannot be achieved unless the Catholic and nationalist community is able to
identify with the name and symbols of the police service. It should therefore be
renamed the Northern Ireland Police Service, with a new badge and symbols
entirely free from any association with the British or Irish states.

The colour of the uniform should remain, though a new and more practical style
should be adopted. The Union flag should no longer be flown from police
buildings. The service should ensure the maintenance of a neutral working
environment.

Co-operation with

other forces

CO-OPERATION with the Garda Siochana in the Republic is good but should be
improved with more formal arrangements, an annual conference and a programme of
long-term personnel exchanges. There should be co-operation in training and in
joint disaster planning. There should also be greater links with forces in
Britain and elsewhere, including the FBI.

Overseeing change

AN EMINENT person from outside these islands should be appointed as an oversight
commissioner to supervise the implementation of these recommendations. The
government, the police service and the Policing Board should provide the
commissioner with objectives, timetables and progress reports.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nationalists calling for the disbandment of the RUC yesterday during a
protest in west Belfast Paul Faith; An RUC officer looking at the report
yesterday

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              384 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 12, 1999

Comment: Shrill, hysterical Trimble? No, just pragmatic

BYLINE: Henry Patterson

SECTION: Observer News Pages; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 876 words


DAVID TRIMBLE'S unconcealed anger when he was giving his first public response
to the Patten Commission's report on the Royal Ulster Constabulary and his
description of it as 'shoddy' and a 'gratuitous insult' will have shocked those
in Ireland and Britain who had seen him , whatever his hard-line past, as having
played a progressive role in bringing an often fractious and resistant Unionist
Party into the current peace process. Trimble's rage focused on the change of
name, the new badge and symbols which are to be free of any association with the
British or Irish states, and the fact that the Union flag should no longer be
flown from police buildings. The Irish Times, until now sympathetic to the
dilemmas created for Trimble by continued IRA violence, claimed he was guilty of
'shrill, almost hysterical, misuse of language'. After all, the argument goes,
what's in a name? Does not any rational evaluation of what Patten recommends
show that the key demands of the republican movement and many nationalists have
been rejected? There will be no disbandment, no question of existing officers
being asked to reapply for their jobs, no abolition of the Special Branch, no
Balkanisation of policing structures, no aboli tion of the use of plastic
bullets. Is the report in reality not more of a challenge to republicans? They
are being asked to sign up to a Northern Ireland Police Service which recognises
in its very name the partitionist nature of the new dispensation in Northern
Ireland. Will not Sinn Fein membership of the new Policing Board represent the
final recognition that the goal of a 32-county socialist republic has as much
relation to practical politics for Gerry Adams as Clause 4 had for Harold
Wilson? There are two problems with these arguments. One is a product of the
specific circumstances in which the report was published. With Mo Mowlam's
public admission that the IRA was involved in the recent attempt to import
weapons from the United States, there must be a big question mark over whether
Patten will get the republican recognition of the new police service which he
claimed would be the major gain to compensate for the pain felt by many RUC men
and unionists. Thus, from a simple cost-benefit point of view, there is a
rational core to Trimble's emotionalism. The name and other symbolic changes may
well enrage many unionists without in the least impressing republicans. The
second was referred to by Mr Patten in his post-publication press conference
when he said that there were 'two stories' about the RUC and the policing
question in Northern Ireland. As the report puts it: 'In one political language,
they (the police) are the custodians of nationhood. In its rhetorical opposite,
they are the symbols of oppression.' At the core of unionist anger is what they
see as Patten's acceptance of the moral equivalence of the republican and
unionist 'stories' about policing. Unionist emotionalism about the RUC and its
symbols which Mr Trimble reflected is not simply rooted, as the report at times
implies, in a reactionary desire to get back to the Stormont regime when the
Unionist Party, through its control of the state, had a proprietorial
relationship to the police. Rather, it reflects raw and bitter memory of the
IRA's armed assault not on the Stormont regime which ceased to exist in 1972,
but on what unionists regard as their basic right to self-determination. For a
quarter of a century, the Provisional IRA waged a war to force the British state
to expel a million unionists from the UK. From the onset of the British
government's 'Ulsterisation' policies in the mid-Seventies, the brunt of the
IRA's assault was borne by the RUC which was expanded to its present size in
order to ensure that the loss of British soldiers was minimised. The report's
failure to give clear and adequate recognition to this recent bloody his tory is
what has hurt and disappointed many in the unionist community. The danger, as
Trimble pointed out on Friday, is that an over-emotional reaction to the
symbolic changes in the report will prevent unionists from approaching the
three-month consultative period in a rational and strategic way. Such an
emotional spasm also threatens to destroy any possibility of success for Senator
Mitchell's review of the Good Friday Agreement by strengthening the hand of the
rejectionists in the Unionist Party. His deputy, John Taylor's, announcement of
his withdrawal from the review yesterday was depressing confirmation of this.
Yet emotionalism is countered by a strong streak of pragmatism in the mainstream
of unionism. This can range from the RUC man or woman's concern about mortgages
and pensions to the broader recognition of many who voted for the Agreement that
whatever the moral and political ambiguities of the peace process, it has saved
the lives of police officers who would have died but for its existence. The fact
that Trimble did not resign over Patten , a real possibility, was a victory of
pragmatism over emotionalism. Whether that victory will be mirrored in his party
and in the unionist mainstream in Ulster in the coming weeks will very much
depend on Tony Blair.

Henry Patterson is Professor of Politics at the University of Ulster.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              385 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 12, 1999, Sunday

I COULD HAVE BOMBED BBC;
 HOW SUNDAY PEOPLE MAN WAS ALLOWED TO WANDER UNCHALLENGED ROUND THE TV CENTRE

BYLINE: Roger Insall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 952 words


THE LIVES of some of Britain's top stars are being put at risk because security
at the BBC's TV nerve centre is a sick joke.

Despite the murder of Jill Dando and death threats against several Beeb
executives, I sneaked inside last week and spent THREE HOURS wandering freely
through the offices, canteens and studios.

Amazingly just hours earlier BBC bosses had announced a security crackdown after
a crazed intruder smashed his way into the News Room and threatened to kill Anna
Ford.

But I could have been a terrorist bomber, an arsonist, a thief, a stalker or
even a contract killer.

Despite having NO identity pass and NO clearance for the van I was in, I slipped
past Television Centre's security guards and electronic barriers THREE times in
one day.

For all they knew, I could have been a mad bomber and the van could have
contained enough explosive to flatten the entire building.

But nobody gave me a second glance as, dressed scruffily in jeans and a
tracksuit top, I wandered around the maze of corridors and:

lCHATTED to Ruby Wax, got her autograph and then asked to take her photograph;

lPOSED for a snap with ex-soccer star David Platt as he prepared to comment on
England's game with Poland;

lSAT in the Blue Peter garden where lovely presenter Katy Hill, who has received
bizarre death threats, works;

lSPOTTED World Affairs Editor John Simpson, whose life was threatened by Serb
fanatics during the Kosovan crisis, limping along a corridor;

lFOLLOWED Absolutely Fab star Joanna Lumley down a flight of steps;

lWATCHED in amusement as chat show host Clive Anderson was quizzed at reception
because he had forgotten his security pass; and

lTOOK the lift to stand outside the sixth-floor office of Director of Television
Alan Yentob, who has been given special high risk security since receiving death
threats.

If I'd been a maniac with a knife I could have stabbed any of them.

Only once did it look like I had been rumbled.

"Excuse me, Sir," called out a stocky securityman in a firm voice that stopped
me in my tracks.

Then pointing to the cigarette I was smoking, he politely asked: "Can you give
me a light?"

The BBC claims it has spent an extra pounds 300,000 hiring an outside firm of
top consultants to beef up security since the murder of Crimewatch girl Jill
Dando.

Staff have been warned to report any suspicious strrangers they see lurking
around the White City building in London.

And bosses ordered another urgent review after this week's intruder vaulted over
turnstiles in the foyer, sprinted up a flight of stairs, hurled a table through
a reinforced window and then ran amok in the Newsroom.

As Anna Ford, Royal correspndent Jenny Bond and 100 other staff stared in
horror, he screamed: "I'll kill you ...I am going to get every single one of
you." But I found little evidence of increased security when we pulled up
outside the Wood Lane entrance in an unmarked white Transit van.

"Pick up for BBC Bristol," I told the guard, who jotted down the registration
number, placed a small sticker on the side window, then lifted the red and white
barrier to wave me through.

There was no check on the van's contents, we weren't asked to pass through any
metal detectors or scanners.

No-one even asked my name.

Once inside the sprawling complex, I casually wandered into each of the three
staff canteens and restaurants, and strolled through the seven snack bars on
different floors hoping to recognise a familiar face.

I saw more securitymen taking coffee breaks and chatting inside than anywhere
else in the building. But none of them took any notice of me. The first
celebrity I spotted was actor and comic Tony Slattery, nattering away to a girl
production assistant.

Then I headed backstage at Studio Four where I lingered unquestioned outside
Generation Game host Jim Davidson's dressing room.

I hung around to watch the show rehearsals before popping into the Blue Peter
gardens.

For ten minutes I lay sprawled on the manicured lawns, casually smoking a
cigarette and watching the TV crews in action. Then I sat on one of the wooden
benches which minutes earlier had been occupied by Royal reporter Jenny Bond as
she used the set for one of her interviews.

Down in the main foyer, I watched as visitors were subjected to ID checks, bag
searches and scans before being allowed into the TV Centre.

Then they had to wait at reception for security staff to escort them to and from
their destinations. Even staff who had forgotten their security passes were
subject to long delays as their identifications were painstakingly checked. But
no-one raised an eyebrow over the fact that I had no ID badge.

Instead I was able to wander at will past empty offices on the executive floor,
posing for pictures outside those of Mr Yentob and BBC1 Controller Peter Salmon.

But despite my scruffy appearance, white-collar workers and secretaries who
scurried by in the corridors never gave me a second glance.

The whole time I was there I was never searched, frisked or asked to sign in. I
was carrying a large, blue canvass bag, big enough to conceal a bomb or even a
small machine gun.

Luckily for the BBC, it only contained a camera...and my cheese sandwiches.

A BBC spokesman insisted last night that Television Centre could not be turned
into a "fortress".

He said: "This is a public building where 7,500 people work and 1,000 vehicles
come through the gate every day.

"It is not a Ministry of Defence base. We have to strike a balance between
sensible security and the need to be welcoming to people coming for all the
right reasons."

Voice of the People: Page 8

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EASY TARGET: The BBC entrance; TOP MAN: Insall outside Yentob's office;
SITTING PRETTY: Blue Peter garden; SCORED: With footballer David; Platt; WAX
WORKS: Reporter Insall, his face blanked to protect his anonymity, poses with
Ruby Wax after sneaking inside the Beeb HQNERVE; CENTRE: Outside the Beeb's News
RoomFLASHBACK: Anna Ford after the intruder alert

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              386 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 12, 1999

The Royal Ulster Constabulary is viewed by many Catholics as a Protestant
Unionist force, and by many Protestants as a proud bulwark against Irish
Republican Army terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 136 words



On Thursday, a commission, headed by the former Hong Kong Governor Chris Patten,
delivered its report. The recommendations stop short of some needed reforms. The
report would not ban the use of potentially deadly plastic bullets for crowd
control. Nor would it abolish Britain's repressive emergency legislation used to
prosecute terror suspects, or purge the police of officers accused of brutality.

Despite these flaws, Britain should quickly pass the laws necessary to carry out
the report. It has been praised by Dublin and London and, surprisingly, by the
constabulary's Chief Constable. So far Sinn Fein is reserving judgment, but
should find much to like. Then the IRA should agree to give up some weapons, a
largely symbolic gesture that would nevertheless reinvigorate the peace process.

LOAD-DATE: July 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Sunday Business Group

                              387 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 13, 1999

Peace process never existed

SECTION: Boxfile: Western Morning Views (Letters), Pg.10

LENGTH: 207 words


"What we are doing is not about appeasement," says Mo Mowlam, after her absurd
declaration that in spite of all recent IRA atrocities the ceasefire is intact
and the peace process not broken, and Prime Minister Tony Blair declares that
what remains of the peace process is better than nothing at all.

And when the next bomb outrage takes place, whether in Northern Ireland or
mainland Britain, no doubt this precious duo of Blair and Mowlam will still
insist that their sacred cow, the Good Friday Agreement, has not been violated.
For them, if only to preserve credibility, they would have to cease releasing
terrorist jailbirds, which they believe would trigger unrestrained violence. The
only message this sends to the IRA is that violence and the threat of violence
still pays.

Of course, unwittingly Blair and Mowlam have been right in declaring that the
peace process has not been violated - for it never existed. All we have had is a
ceasefire designed to produce effective results for the republican cause, and
this it certainly has. Gerry Adams and his side-kick McGuiness have made rings
around Blair and Mowlam and we are back to square one.

Martin Langley

Wells

- UNDER FIRE: Northern Ireland Secretary Mo Mowlam

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              388 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 14, 1999

EU squeezes Indonesia with ban on arms sales;Airlift under way at UN compound as
Jakarta relents over Australian troops

BYLINE: Aine Harrington

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 676 words


THE European Union last night imposed an arms embargo on Indonesia in a move
which Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said was intended to put pressure on its
military to take full responsibility for the killings in East Timor. The
embargo, to be reviewed after four months, bans all sales of arms, munitions,
and military equipment, including items "which may be used for internal
repression". EU foreign ministers also agreed to suspend all military co
-operation with Indonesia. As the political pressure mounted, the Australian air
force launched an airlift early this morning to evacuate about 1300 East
Timorese from the United Nations compound in Dili. A UN spokesman said C-130
Hercules cargo planes would fly throughout the day between Darwin and the East
Timorese capital. UN staff also were being evacuated in an operation involving
about 16 flights. Only a small UN presence would be left at the embattled
compound. The EU decision, meanwhile, followed weekend moves by Britain and the
US to suspend arms sales to Indonesia. Mr Cook said it was intended to maintain
pressure on Indonesia after President B J Habibie agreed to comply with UN
demands and allow an international peacekeeping force into the province. He told
a press conference in Brussels: "It is clear that the army of Indonesia has to
take responsibility for the violence, destruction, and brutality in East Timor.
"It is not simply that they failed to prevent violence and intimidation by the
militia, but that they themselves were part of the violence. "That is why it is
right that sanctions should be targeted on the military." Until Sunday, the
Indonesian Government, and particularly its hard-line military, had refused to
permit outside forces into the former Portuguese colony to end a rampage by
Indonesian troops and militias opposed to the territory's independence.
Thousands of East Timorese have been killed or driven from their homes by the
militias since the overwhelming "yes" vote in last month's referendum.
Indonesia's capitulation was welcomed by world leaders, including US President
Bill Clinton. However, the foreign ministers issued the EU's strongest statement
yet on the carnage, accusing the Indonesian forces or aiding the militia
attacks. "Atrocious acts of terror in East Timor ... have been perpetrated with
the complicity of the Indonesian armed forces and police. Order, security, and
the rule of law must be restored immediately," the statement said. Indonesia
wants the UN to send a force as quickly as possible and is putting no conditions
on its composition, Indonesia's Foreign Minister Ali Alatas said. His statement
seemed to open the way for Australia to play a role, despite objections from
Indonesia's powerful armed forces and a parliamentary committee. "It's all up to
the United Nations to determine the composition," Alatas said before a meeting
with Secretary -General Kofi Annan. Alatas said Indonesia would prefer Asian
countries in the force, and admitted to some problems with Australia, but he
insisted these were not conditions. However, in the capital, Jakarta, protesters
burned an effigy of Australian Prime Minister John Howard. Some marched on its
embassy carrying signs that read: "War - Indonesia v Australia." The EU had
earlier demanded that UN human rights investigators be allowed into East Timor
and said those responsible for the bloodshed should be brought to justice. Mary
Robinson, the UN's top human rights envoy, met Habibie and said he agreed that
those responsible for atrocities must be held accountable before a Yugoslav
-style war crimes commission. The EU urged Indonesia to open East Timor
immediately to humanitarian aid for the estimated 300,000 people forced to flee.
Timorese guerrilla leader Tuar Matan Ruak said his rebels could distribute food
to people hiding in the mountains if the UN made air drops. However in the towns
and lowlands, he said, "the situation is still the same. Houses are burning and
people are still being rounded up for transport to the other side of the
island."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              389 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 18, 1999, Saturday

MONITOR; ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD;
 INTERVENTION IN EAST TIMOR MELITA NORWOOD RUSSIAN BOMBINGS TEXAS MASSACRE
LONDON MAYORAL CONTEST

BYLINE: Research By Sally Chatterton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2417 words


MELITA NORWOOD

British reaction to the revelation that an 87-year-old from Bexleyheath was a
spy for the KGB

The Morning Star

SHE TOOK advantage of the position she was in to give her side a bit of help in
the international class struggle. In any case, Melita Norwood, an honest and
open communist, was not only helping the Soviet Union in its effort to build and
preserve a socialist system; she was also helping the British people themselves
a good deal more than most of those noisy patriots who are now denouncing her
would have done. (Andrew Murray)

The Mirror

SUPERSPY MELITA Norwood is not the only one acting like a dotty old person over
her treachery. What on earth do the police, MI5 and Government think they are
playing at? Maybe at 87 she is too old to be prosecuted. After all, this country
has an ignoble tradition of failing to make the spies in our midst face justice.
But the very least that should have happened when it was discovered was a full
and open Government statement. Treachery is still one of the worst crimes. Just
because what former spies did doesn't matter any more does not mean they should
not be used as a warning to anyone tempted to betray this country.

The Sunday

Telegraph

THE IGNORANCE of successive Home Secretaries on the subject is alarming. The
decision not to prosecute a traitor against whom there is powerful evidence is
one which should not be taken lightly, or without the Home Secretary's
knowledge. There is a pattern of failing to prosecute KGB traitors. The security
services may have reasons of their own for not wishing to get entangled in
prosecutions. But it is difficult to understand how not prosecuting traitors can
be in the public interest. We need to deter potential traitors. Granting
immunity is not the way to do it.

Evening Standard

THE HOME Secretary is caught red-faced by the contrast between his obsessive
attitude to General Pinochet and the authorities' indulgent attitude to elderly
British traitors. Yet there is another group of people who deserve to share the
public pillory with the spies: the old Labour left, which adopted a grotesquely
tolerant, if not sympathetic, attitude towards the Soviet Union to the very end
of the Cold War. These were the people who created the climate in which active
British traitors were so readily seduced. They have never said sorry, and we are
indulgent enough merely to giggle when the Labour Party conference still sings
the "Red Flag", as a nostalgic gesture to its old soulmates in Moscow.

The Guardian

WE NEED to know whether Melita Norwood made a deal with the security services.
Remember Blunt. Was the decision not to prosecute her based on compassion, or a
desire to cover up security service incompetence? There is something wrong with
a state which pursues a journalist, Tony Geraghty, for six pages in a book which
is still available in bookshops, and ignores a woman whose treachery is said to
have accelerated the Soviet nuclear weapon system.

The Daily

Telegraph

NOW THAT Mrs Norwood (Order of the Red Banner) has confessed, without remorse,
her betrayal of her country to the century's most brutal dictator (Old Joe),
should she be tried, condemned and jailed? Of course, and the sooner the better.

The Sun

AS NORWOOD and her fellow spies crawl out of the woodwork, justice must be done.
They were happy to betray our country. Now they must pay the price. The Cold War
was a time when the West was good. And communism was evil. It was evil because
it denied millions hope, liberty and the pursuit of happiness.

News of the World

MELITA NORWOOD is a traitor. Yet tough-talking Jack Straw turns a blind eye to
her treachery and orders the security services to leave her alone. His double
standards allow him to pursue General Pinochet. Yet the evil Mrs Norwood is
allowed to live out her last years with impunity, principally because she is 87.
The General is 83 and a friend of Britain. Mr Straw should either send him home
or throw the book at Melita Norwood, before it's too late. He can't have it both
ways.

Failure to protect the weak

The Age

Australia

THEY HAVE been abused and exploited by a regime whose annexation of the
territory was recognised by Australia in 1978. Australia's decision then was at
odds with the views of our major allies, defied international law and ignored
the appalling human-rights record of the Indonesian Government. We failed
Timorese who looked to us for support. With their recent independence poll, East
Timorese again displayed their trust in the rule of international law, turning
up to polling booths in great numbers despite the very real threat of violence.
We should match their courage with our generosity. If ever there was a time to
open the gates, it is now. Politicians and bureaucrats should face the moral
reality of our situation and start planning how best to fulfil our obligations
to our suffering neighbours.

Asahi Shimbun

Japan

IT IS an undeniable fact that Indonesian troops provided military training to
anti-independence youths and encouraged the local population to provide tips
about the pro-independence movement. When order is restored in East Timor,
Indonesia's troops should be pulled out. Meanwhile, the Japanese government
refrained from openly twisting the arm of the Indonesian government out of
consideration for the stability of the Habibie government. Japan has also been
unwilling over the years to play a large part in solving the conflict in East
Timor. That is not the way for Japan to deliver on its international
responsibility. Obstacles to peace can be overcome only by a reconciliation
among the population, the restoration of order and a return to normality in the
people's daily lives.

Sydney Morning

Herald

Australia

THE PEACEKEEPING force became a necessity only because of Indonesia's failure to
meet a solemn international obligation to maintain security in East Timor
before, during and after the plebiscite. Indonesia refused the offer of
international peacekeepers to assist in the holding of the plebiscite. Once it
had insisted on taking responsibility for security, Indonesia could not complain
of outside pressure when the world moved to pick up the pieces after its tragic
failure to meet that responsibility. Indonesia stands shamed before the world
for its armed forces' encouragement of, and participation in, the killings and
destruction in East Timor. It plainly felt entitled to punish the East Timorese
people for daring to reject Indonesian rule.

Business Times

Thailand

THE DIFFERENCE between Kosovo and East Timor is that, when push came to shove,
the US wasn't willing to use military power to shield the weaker side from the
consequences of challenging the more-powerful player. That may send the correct
message from Washington to the other secessionist movements in Indonesia: we
sympathise with your quest for independence, but don't expect us to come to your
defence!

Hong Kong Standard

BY SENDING civilian police to East Timor, Beijing has acknowledged the
legitimacy and usefulness of having military involvement in other countries for
humanitarian reasons. This also means that the Central Government is committed
to international norms and regional security. If Japan, whose World War II
invasions still linger in many of its neighbours' minds, is allowed to take part
in the UN-sponsored military operations, why should China be excluded? China
should be given a role compatible with its status. China's participation in the
peacekeeping will not lead to the expansion of its military clout overseas, but
to its greater co- operation on other regional conflicts.

Jakarta Post

Indonesia

WE HAVE lost East Timor, and nothing we do now can deny the East Timorese their
well-deserved independence. There is no sense in getting upset about the
prospect of seeing foreign soldiers arriving in East Timor. Indonesia has no
business in remaining in East Timor. If the arrival this weekend of the
multinational force is to be the greatest humiliation of all, pray that this
will be the last one. By now, we hope our leaders have truly learned their
lessons well: that as a self -respecting nation and member of the international
community we must respect universal humanitarian values and live up to our
responsibilities.

Mail and Guardian

South Africa

IT IS criminal for the UN to be dragged into such absolutely hopeless
situations. The West smeared the face of the UN with excreta when it didn't
allow the UN to beef up its force in Rwanda. The West compromised the UN over
Kosovo; by ignoring the UN and bombing Yugoslavia, and by handing over the
refugee crisis created by the bombing to the UN. And now East Timor. It is time
the world told the West that its behaviour is disgusting.(Cameron Duodu)

INTERVENTION IN EAST TIMOR

RUSSIAN BOMBINGS

Russian reaction to a series of suspected terrorist bomb attacks across the
country

Moscow Times

THE MOOD on the streets of Moscow seems to indicate that neither Azeri fruit
vendors nor random foreigners are currently held to be plausible scapegoats.
Terrorism should be fought with intelligence, skill and technology - none of
which has been in considerable evidence over the past week - and not with the
arbitrary screw -tightening suggested by Moscow Mayor, Yuri Luzhkov.

Nezavisimaya Gazeta

RUSSIAN POLITICIANS may have come to their senses at last, but it could be said
that it's too little too late. They failed to move after the first explosion and
it took two days and another bomb before they did react. Recent events have
eliminated the prospects for those politicians who fail to express themselves.
We need politicians who have political will and favour radical action. There are
rare moments in life when millions of people think the same. There is such a
moment now.

St Petersburg Times

IF URBAN Russians are anything like their Israeli or British/Irish counterparts,
they will learn to take the threat in their stride, and accept the extra
document checks and removal of trash cans in public places as necessary. The
mentality of a nation under threat is unique; it can be even binding. That
mentality can be exploited. Russians will need the clearest of clear heads in
the coming months, to sort out the slanted news reports from the facts, to spot
the silver tongues from the genuinely concerned, and to tell the difference
between necessary precautions, and racial harassment - or even state of
emergency that is established in stealthy installments.

Moskovsky

Komsomolets

MUSCOVITES FEEL tough measures are the only adequate measures. Chechen
terrorists are doing everything for Russia not to have any future. Prime
Minister Putin was declared by the Kremlin as a tough official and successor to
half-dead Yeltsin who can't be woken, not even by the explosions in the capital.
Now Putin has a chance, if not to win the war, then at least to gain the
initiative. Chechnya has to choose between stopping its military action on
Russian territory or extermination of the Republic.

Izvestiya

WAR HAS already been declared in Russia. And many Muscovites in the suburbs are
forming their own special detachments to patrol their houses and gardens. The
entire population has made up its mind that it has no choice but to ensure its
own security rather than rely on the state. This is because they are more than
certain that the government and authorities cannot guarantee it. Their fear is
gradually transforming into hatred. The slogan "For every Moscow house - a
village in Chechnya" is ever more popular and echoes in the streets.

MASSACRE IN TEXAS

American comment following the gunning down

of seven people in a Fort Worth church

washington Post

PEOPLE KNOW that a lack of strong laws will put bullets in guns and guns in
hands, including the hands of children. Even the best checks won't prevent
deranged people from purchasing concealable firearms. Take these weapons off the
general market, and you eliminate much of the problem. Must the country suffer
serial mass killings while its lawmakers remain in denial?

Houston Chronicle

AMERICANS SHOULD not succumb to constant fear of random violence. Violent crime
rates are much lower than they were in preceding decades. At the same time,
Americans show no sign of becoming desensitized by these ghastly crimes. Their
continued sense of shock and horror might be society's best bulwark against
these disturbed predators.

USA Today

THERE IS a powerful need to sustain our sense of shock and anger. In it, we find
the energy to overcome obstacles and take the steps necessary to protect
ourselves. In Austin as in Fort Worth, horror-struck communities must move on.
In Austin as in Fort Worth, furious communities need to act. From Whitman to
Ashbrook, we can see the need for both.

Fort Worth Star Telegram

ALTHOUGH OUR leaders have expressed concern about the regularly scheduled gun
shows held in public buildings, they have not voted to prevent these displays
and the sale of firearms. After a dreadful event such as the one in this city
last night, we'll hear plenty of words denouncing violence. Unfortunately, our
actions continue to speak to the contrary. Above all the rhetoric, there will be
a loud flapping noise... of the chickens coming home to roost.

LONDON MAYORAL CONTEST

Response to the shortlisting of Jeffrey Archer and Steven Norris as candidates
for Mayor of London

Daily Telegraph

WINNING BACK the Conservative vote in the London suburbs requires competence
rather than charisma, wine and cheese in Acacia Avenue rather than Krug in the
penthouse. Both candidates carry more baggage than the Tory party might wish,
but Mr Norris has the better policies, greater experience and is less likely to
be distracted from the campaign.

Daily Mail

LORD ARCHER is a self-promoting fantasist. His behaviour over the Anglia shares
episode still leaves disturbing questions unanswered. Mr Norris is a serial
adulterer, whose main claim to fame is his five mistresses while he was an MP.
Can any politician - particularly politicians of such appallingly low calibre -
do London anything but harm?

Evening

Standard

ARCHER AND Norris delivered rousing performances, but their speeches were as
heavy with cliche as their characters were heavy with doubt. Neither could be
called alpha plus. (Simon Jenkins)

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 19, 1999, Sunday

HUNDREDS IN RALLY TO RAGE AGAINST RUC CHANGES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 251 words


HUNDREDS turned out in the North yesterday in a rally in support of the RUC -
and to lash the author of a report that they say will destroy the force.

Crowds poured into the Belfast's Ulster hall to hear speakers praise the police
in their efforts to fight terrorism and crime.

Among them were widows and other bereaved families and friends who lost their
loved ones to terrorist violence.

Former RUC chief constable Sir John Hermon, who led the force during the
controversial shoot-to-kill era, was the keynote speaker at the event.

He told the crowd that the recommendations made by former Hong Kong governor
Chris Patten would plunge the RUC back into its "pre-1969" days.

Other speakers included Vincent McKenna of the Northern Ireland Human Rights
Bureau and Ulster Unionist Assemblyman Sir John Gorman.

Sir John, a Catholic, said there were more of his co-religionists in senior
posts than in the force as a whole.

"Some of the finest men and women in the RUC worship with me on a Sunday.

"And how they have paid for it - targeted by the IRA simply for being
Catholics."

He went on: "The Patten report pretends the IRA has gone away. It hasn't.

"The reason Patten was called in was because the politicians in the negotiations
could not agree about policing.

"Why then devolve responsibility for policing to the proposed executive?"

One focus of the rally was to launch a fund-raising campaign in Britain and to
put cash into the RUC's Benevolent Fund.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              391 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 20, 1999

Anguish of Lockerbie in a grim year of conflict and disaster
 THE STORY OF OUR CENTURY: Part 89 Lynne St Claire looks at events through the
pages of the Western Morning News

BYLINE: 20_P20_Calendar

SECTION: Pg.20

LENGTH: 2335 words


A year of disaster opens... death aboard the exploding Piper Alpha oil -rig;
millions made homeless by floods in Bangladesh; Hurricane Gilbert whipping up
havoc in the West Indies; the Prince of Wales narrowly escaping an avalanche at
a Klosters ski party; and in one month, Armenian cities wiped out in a massive
earthquake, a major rail collision at Clapham Junction and the heartbreaking
tragedy of Lockerbie when a Pan Am jet falls out of the sky.

International turmoil continues... in Northern Ireland, in the Gulf, in Africa,
and in the Communist world, riven by ethnic unrest. For Palestinians, the fight
to throw off Israeli occupation goes on with a defiant uprising, or "intifada",
bringing violence to the West Bank and Gaza. The world's media this year will
bring into our living rooms grim scenes of conflict between stone -throwing
nationalists and the live ammunition of soldiers, with children falling in the
firing line.

At home, the "crisis in the NHS" brings nurses out on strike in January - in
what is said to be the profession's first official 24 -hour stoppage, 70 nurses
in Manchester begin their action over proposed cuts in payments for unsocial
hours. They fear some nurses will lose up to GBP 40 a week. In February, while
Mrs Thatcher talks of a "radical review" of the NHS, thousands from the NUPE and
COHSE unions will march on Parliament to point up the need for increased health
service funding. Members of the Royal College of Nursing, which has a no-strike
policy, join protests while off duty. More demonstrations are planned for March
when health workers from the South West plan to join London colleagues, but by
April, nurses will be offered pay rises averaging 15 per cent, with more for
special skills.

March brings a storm of controversy when three IRA terrorists "on active
service" are shot dead in a Gibraltar street by members of the SAS who fear the
trio are about to detonate a car bomb. Most Conservative MPs welcome the
prevention of an outrage, but some Labour MPs denounce the incident as "an act
of terrorism in itself". Some eye-witnesses also dispute that the unarmed
terrorists were given any warning before being shot.

Later it is reported that searches across the border in Spain have located a car
with Semtex explosives and a timer primed to go off during an Army parade two
days after the shooting. The car is said to be one of three used by the bombers,
who apparently intended to swap the explosives car for one left near Government
House in Gibraltar. Spanish police have been tracking the gang for four months.

More bloodshed follows as the three terrorists are buried at Milltown Cemetery
in Belfast, when a Loyalist assassin bursts into the crowd, firing
indiscriminately and hurling grenades at the mourners. Three are killed and many
injured. The "kamikaze" gunman is later identified as a Protestant from East
Belfast. Political leaders, fearing reprisals, appeal for calm, but rioting
flares and tensions are running at their highest for years.

Three days later, in full view of television cameras, a crazed mob sets upon two
British soldiers who blunder into an IRA funeral cortege, beat them and drive
them to waste ground where they are stripped and shot. The incident causes huge
public revulsion, but the IRA says the men were "SAS soldiers on a dirty tricks
operation". No-one knows why Corporal Derek Wood, 24, and Corporal Robert Howes,
23, were driving through the staunchly Republican area.

Also in March, the Prince of Wales has a narrow escape when an avalanche hurtles
down on his ski-ing party at the exclusive Swiss resort of Klosters, killing his
close friend Major Hugh Lindsay, 34, a former Equerry to the Queen. Prince
Charles had skied down the off-piste run only moments before the "whirling
maelstrom" crashed down, hitting the major and Mrs Patti Palmer -Tomkinson,
whose legs were broken. The Prince raced back to help dig them out of the snow
but Major Lindsay was dead on arrival at hospital. The Princess of Wales and the
pregnant Duchess of York were fortunately resting in their chalet. A magistrate
will later criticise the royal party for ski-ing on a dangerous run and causing
the avalanche. Major Lindsay's mother, the Hon Mrs Audrey Lindsay, lives at
Budleigh Salterton. Although she is said to be shattered by her son's death, she
accepts it as an unfortunate accident. His wife Sarah is expecting a baby in
May.

July brings a severe anti-West backlash when American warship the USS Vincennes,
guarding oil tankers in the Gulf, mistakenly shoots down an Iranian civil
airliner, killing all 290 on board. The ship reportedly mistook the airbus for
an Iranian fighter and sent out warnings before the fateful shots were fired.
President Reagan says the US "deeply regrets the loss of life" and is ordering
an inquiry. There is no doubt, however, that the incident will severely inflame
the volatile relationship between the US and Iran, which describes the incident
as "a barbaric massacre". The Iranians pledge to avenge their martyrs, victims
of "the great Satan". Fears are now rising for the fate of British hostages held
by Iranian sympathisers and that of South Devon businessman Roger Cooper,
detained by Iranian authorities without trial on a spying charge.

This month also sees a devastating oil-rig fire - more than 150 are thought to
have perished in an explosion aboard Piper Alpha in the North Sea, 120 miles off
the Scottish town of Wick. Only 70 are believed to have survived the inferno,
described by one as "like an atomic bomb going off". Survivors talk of a "big
bang" which shook the 625ft rig and wiped out the control room, followed by a
second explosion when flames engulfed the platform. Men jumped into the blazing
sea where dinghies raced to rescue them, but many drowned. A multi-national
flotilla including NATO warships is joining the rescue operation but is hampered
by the colossal heat.

Some Westcountrymen aboard the disaster rig have escaped - among them are
Stephen Middleton of Wembury and Ed Punchard from Falmouth. Two things, Ed says,
stand out in his memory: "Men clinging to wreckage being plucked from the water
like a wartime film, and the gradual collapse of the rig among the explosions
into the sea." Both men survived by scrambling down a rope before being lifted
off. A gas escape from a compression chamber will be blamed for the disaster.

In the Westcountry, this year is the tercentenary of the accession of William
and Mary to the British throne and the anniversary of the arrival of the Spanish
Armada in 1588 - both cause for special events. In Torbay, where William and
Mary landed from Holland in 1688, the Queen arrives in July to give royal assent
to the celebrations, cheered on by thousands of well-wishers and showered with
bouquets. Her itinerary, packed with pageantry and splendour, includes a
walkabout in Brixham, where she watches a splendid flotilla of yachts by British
and Dutch sailing clubs, and a re-enactment of the landing of William and Mary.

And there's "fire over England" when the first of a chain of beacons is lit at
Kynance Cove on The Lizard to start off "Armadamania" - with a neat touch of
courtesy, the Spanish Ambassador is invited to perform the honours commemorating
the sighting of the Spanish fleet. Beacons then flare across Cornwall, and
thence up country to Berwick-on-Tweed, probably the greatest beacon chain for
300 years.

At Gribbin Head, the National Trust beacon is lit by Mrs Veronica Rashleigh from
Menabilly House, whose ancestors sent two ships to Fowey to join the English
fleet.

In Plymouth, of course, Sir Francis Drake's game of bowls is re-enacted by
Theatre Royal actors, 400 years to the hour after its famous disruption.
Appropriately, Drake's 700-year-old home, Buckland Abbey, is being reopened
after major restoration following a fire. The quatercentenary celebrations come
to a spectacular conclusion as the Spanish invasion is retold with the use of
lasers, searchlights and a monster firework display in Plymouth Sound, viewed by
massive crowds on the Hoe.

But sadly, the grief goes on in Northern Ireland as eight British soldiers die
in a bomb blast in August. This time, Westcountrymen are among the victims when
a landmine explodes beneath their bus in Omagh. Killed in the explosion is
Plymouth soldier Mark Norsworthy, 18, of the 1st Battalion Light Infantry, whose
mother Joyce makes an impassioned plea for British troops to be pulled out of
the province. "I will never forgive," she says. Soldiers from Taunton and
Bristol have also died, though Cpl Colin Matthews of Truro escaped because he
had bought a car and decided to drive back to Ireland. Five Cornish soldiers are
recovering from their injuries in hospital. Mrs Thatcher, who cut short a
Cornish holiday to return to London in the wake of the tragedy, resists pressure
for the reintroduction of internment. But a major security review is under way
to increase safety for soldiers, with better intelligence gathering, a move to
cut off cash for terrorists and the scrapping of distinctive car number plates.

In September, the Olympic Games in Seoul are marked by the huge performance of
triple champion Florence Griffith Joyner - "Flo-jo" - a glamorous media
sensation who takes gold for the US in the 100 and 200m races and in the 4x100m
relay. But gamesmanship is sullied by Canada's Ben Johnson. He surpassed his own
record in the 100 metres at 9.79 seconds, but is found to have been using
steroids and is stripped of his gold medal. Other athletes are also
disqualified, among them Britain's judo champion Kerrith Brown. British sprinter
Linford Christie is similarly accused of drug use but is later cleared.

Truro residents are up in arms in October when floods hit the city only nine
months after a similar deluge swept across mid Cornwall at the end of January.
Following torrential rain, about GBP 1 million damage is caused to homes,
offices and shops, and householders and shopkeepers shed angry tears as they mop
up the mess. South West Water says Truro's drainage system was built in the
Seventies and simply cannot cope with water on this scale. Government aid is now
being sought to help pay for improved land drainage.

In December outspoken Junior Health Minister Edwina Currie bows out forced to
resign "with egg on her face" after asserting to the great chagrin of farmers
and producers that most British eggs are infected with salmonella. Sales of eggs
have slumped and in the Westcountry businesses are crumbling and hundreds are
likely to be put out of work despite a government campaign to rescue the
situation. Edwina - or "Eggwina" as she has been dubbed - says she has no
regrets and in fact several cases of salmonella have been linked to eating eggs
or poultry. Calls for compensation are now looming.

December brings a trio of disasters two of them in Britain within nine days.
First President Gorbachev rushes home from America to spearhead a rescue
campaign after a massive earthquake in northern Armenia kills tens of thousands
of people. Described as the world's worst natural disaster it has wiped some
cities and towns off the face of the earth. Amidst scenes of devastation
televised worldwide Mr Gorbachev will visit the troubled Soviet republic which
is already high on his agenda for reform - earlier this year it was locked in
intercommunal violence with Azerbaijan and was subjected to a state of
emergency.

In Britain at least 33 passengers perish and 100 are badly injured in a
three-train pile -up at Clapham Junction south-west London Europe's busiest rail
crossroads. Disaster strikes at the height of the morning rush hour and
survivors later tell of an "almighty explosion". Two packed commuter trains
plough into each other and seconds later an empty train smashes into the
wreckage. Doctors quickly on the scene crawl through tangled wreckage to help
the injured trapped in twisted metal and wood. Other victims have been hurled on
to the tracks.

Signal failure looks the likely cause of the tragedy. British Rail say that work
was already being carried out to make the system safer. Engineers from ML
Engineering of Plymouth were working near the scene on a contract to modernise
signalling but their system does not appear to be to blame. A major public
inquiry is to be launched.

Further horrors are only days away. Just before Christmas a Pan Am jumbo jet
explodes above the Scottish town of Lockerbie killing all 259 on board and 11 on
the ground in Britain's worst air disaster. Flying from Heathrow to New York
after starting in Frankfurt Pan Am flight 103 Clipper Maid of the Seas suddenly
explodes at 31 000 feet disappearing from radar screens.

As it breaks up it scatters wreckage on the town obliterating houses and
littering the countryside with shattered metal debris and bodies. Some wreckage
will be found 80 miles away. The falling aircraft described by one eyewitness as
"a fireball" sets off multiple blazes which firemen race to contain while RAF
helicopters fly in medical teams.

Soldiers and police are combing the area for clues to the disaster and as
accident inspectors examine the wreckage the very strong possibility arises that
the explosion was caused by a terrorist bomb. America it emerges was warned of
just such a possibility a week ago - now the outgoing Reagan administration is
facing tough questions on why the public was not warned.

In the stunned town where tinsel still hangs in shop windows the Rt Rev Maurice
Taylor Roman Catholic Bishop of Galloway tries to sum up the general feeling.
"There is a lot of devastation around he says. I suppose materially the town
will recover but it is the scars on people's hearts that are much more difficult
to assess."

- NEXT YEAR: 1989: The Westcountry's "great storm"; the Berlin Wall comes down;
the horrors of Hillsborough

'Materially the town will recover but it is the scars on people's hearts that
are much more difficult to assess'

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TERROR FROM THE SKY: The wrecked nose section of Pan Am's Clipper Maid
of the Seas lies in a field near Lockerbie after the jumbo jet explodes in
mid-air Health Minister Edwina Currie resigns after asserting that most eggs are
infected with salmonella

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              392 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 24, 1999

SO WAS DIANA ROSS RIGHT

BYLINE: Nick Craven;David Norris

SECTION: Pg. 40

LENGTH: 601 words


DIANA ROSS'S outrage this week at being hand-frisked by a Heathrow security
officer highlighted the issue of security levels at our airports.

So why don't we use handheld electronic detectors favoured by the rest of the
world?

Here, NICK CRAVEN and DAVID NORRIS examine the problem, and opposite, one woman
gives a harrowing account of what can happen when airport police use the full
extent of their powers.

THE manual body searches carried out at Heathrow - the world's busiest airport -
are stoically accepted by millions of male and female travellers alike on the
basis that, whatever personal indignity they suffer on the ground, it is
preferable to being at risk in the air.

But after her arrest on Wednesday, former Supremes star Diana Ross pointed out
that many other airport authorities around the world do not feel it necessary to
resort to frisking passengers before they go to the secure 'airside' section of
the terminal.

No one in their right mind would be opposed to stringent airport security
measures, but their resolve is not always so strong when they are at the end of
a long queue of irate people waiting to walk through the scanner arch, pass
their hand luggage through an X-ray and then be frisked.

Miss Ross has urged women to reject the humiliation of body searches and claims
that her reaction of 'fighting back' by laying hands on the female security
officer was quite natural.

Was she right, or is this a case of a Concorde-travelling superstar who doesn't
like being treated in the same way as those who make up the bulk of Heathrow's
60 million passengers a year? Below, the Mail examines how security is handled
at British airports, and at others around the world.

nBRITAIN: Handheld metal detectors which Miss Ross called for as an alternative
to frisking are not used at any British airport as a manual search is considered
more thorough.

Remote detectors can sniff out metal devices such as guns, and a trained
security guard can recognise objects in pockets or handbags that may contain
narcotics or explosives.

Airport operator BAA made trials with handheld detectors two years ago but the
verdict was that they should be ruled out in favour of hand searches.

'Our security record in the UK speaks for itself,' said a spokesman for the
Department of the Environment, Transport and the Regions.

Airport security in Britain and the U.S. has been increased since the threat
last year by dissident Saudi terror master Osama bin Laden to attack a British
or American plane.

* NEW YORK: Security at John F.

Kennedy Airport, like most U.S. airports, uses handheld body scanners if a
passenger sets off the alarm when passing through the gateway metal detector.

Women security officers search women, and men search men.

FRANCE: Security officers have the power to frisk a woman if she activates a
walkthrough security alarm, but would usually check her with a no-contact,
handheld scanner first.

* GERMANY: The Federal Border Protection Police, who run security at all
airports, say that if someone walked through the metal detector gate and set off
the alarm, they would be frisked physically. 'If the passenger is a woman the
frisking must be conducted by a woman officer,' a spokesman said.

SPAIN: Security at all airports is the responsibility of the paramilitary Civil
Guard. If a passenger sets off the doorway-shaped metal detector, they are taken
aside and have a handheld metal detector run over them.

AUSTRALIA: Security officers use a handheld scanner. There is no physical
frisking of passengers.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: THE HANDHELD METAL DETECTOR USED BY OTHER AIRPORTS AROUND THE WORLD
DIANA ROSS: MAKING A GOOD POINT, OR ACTING LIKE A CONCORDE-TRAVELLING SUPERSTAR?

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              393 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 24, 1999, Friday

BUSBY IS CLOSEST WE HAVE TO A REAL THREAT

BYLINE: Graeme Stewart

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 291 words


ADAM BUSBY, the one time commander of the Scottish National Liberation Army, is
the closest thing we have to a typical terrorist.

Even then, police in his adopted city of Dublin are somewhat sceptical about the
real threat he poses to national security.

However, the Scot, who's originally from Old Kilpatrick, Dunbartonshire, has a
sufficiently serious track record to merit being closely monitored by the
authorities.

The self-styled revolutionary, once dedicated to the liberation of Scotland, is
now plotting the overthrow of British rule in Northern Ireland.

He has now reinvented himself as the head of the Republican Revenge Group.

This was the group which claimed to have sent letters to Tony Blair, the
Catholic Church and water authorities threatening to poison England's water
supplies unless troops were withdrawn from Ulster.

Busby, 50, has waged a virtual one-man campaign since fleeing to Ireland in 1984
after a letter bomb campaign against prominent Government figures.

While in his own eyes he is the commander of an army of dedicated Republicans
waging war against the British Empire, in reality he is a virtually penniless
middle-aged Scot who spends most of his time in a bedsit in a slum district of
Dublin.

However, it was activities like his letter bombs that led to Britain's
spymasters demanding that the Scottish Parliament be moved to protect it from
car bombers.

Architects were told to ensure the new Holyrood building is at least 90ft from
any roads to reduce the risk from terrorist attacks.

One senior Garda source said: "He is something of a Walter Mitty character.

"I would say he does not pose a significant threat - but equally I wouldn't say
he was not dangerous."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SELF-STYLED: Busby

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              394 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           September 26, 1999, Sunday

There are no mujaheddin under the bed

BYLINE: Patrick Seale

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 1040 words


PATRICK SEALE disagrees with a scaremongering view of the impending danger of
global Islamic terrorism

Is the western world facing a deadly threat from a secret army of Muslim
terrorists? Simon Reeve thinks so. "The fanaticism of these fighters is
terrifying," he writes in his scaremongering book, The New Jackals: Ramzi
Yousef, Osama bin Laden and the Future of Terrorism (Deutsch Pounds 17.99). "The
new breed of terrorist attacking the West has few aims. They just want to kill
and punish...The West will soon be facing militants armed with weapons of mass
destruction, and there is little that can be done to prevent a disaster."

This apocalyptic vision is wrong on several counts. The thesis of a pan-Islamic
global conspiracy against the West is hysterical nonsense, and it is a great
pity that Reeve should peddle such dangerous myths. Militant Islam is not a
monolith. The Chechen rebels, Algeria's Armed Islamic Group, Lebanon's
Hezbollah, the Philippines' Moro Liberation Front are all Muslims of one sort or
another, but have little else in common.

Second, while it is undoubtedly true that many Muslims are outraged by the
suffering of the Palestinians, the loss of Jerusalem to the Jews, America's
support for Israel and its relentless punishment of Iraq, there is a great deal
that can be done on the level of policy to defuse their anger. The charge that
Muslim activists oppose America and the West merely out of a sort of "holy-war"
blood lust is a racist libel likely to provoke the violent response so many
fear.

At the heart of this book is the story of the "Afghan Arabs", the 25,000 or so
volunteers from Arab and Muslim countries who, armed, funded and trained by the
United States and its Saudi and Pakistani allies, helped the ragtag Afghan
mujaheddin defeat the Soviet Union in the 1980s, thereby contributing to the
collapse of communism. According to Reeve, between 1986 and 1989 America and
Saudi Arabia ploughed $ 500m a year into fighting the Russians, while
American-supplied Stingers brought down "more than 270 Soviet aircraft". Some
65,000 tons of weapons were delivered to the anti-Soviet forces. Britain's SAS
did its bit by providing weapons training.

Once Russian troops withdrew from Afghanistan, however, the pipe line went dry.
Having served their purpose, the mujaheddin were dropped by their western
backers in a characteristic display of great-power indifference. Still revelling
in their victory, the battle-hardened Afghan Arabs drifted home, anxious to
fight for other oppressed Muslims. But they were not allowed a role or a
political voice. Like veterans of the Vietnam war, their views were too radical
and uncompromising for comfort. Alienated and disillusioned, many of them
rebelled against their home governments - and against their former western
patrons. By 1993-4, the CIA and the FBI woke up to a huge "blowback problem"
from Afghanistan. Their former "assets" were turning against them.

One of the most prominent of the Afghan Arabs was a young Saudi civil engineer
called Osama bin Laden, the son of a tycoon who had founded a building and
contracting firm that, over the years, grew into one of Saudi Arabia's biggest,
carrying out billion-dollar projects in the holy cities of Mecca and Medina and
throughout the Middle East. As an idealistic 22-year-old, bin Laden was enraged
by the Soviet invasion of Afganistan in 1979. Using his wealth and high-level
contacts with the Saudi government, he threw himself into the war against the
Soviets, recruiting volunteers and raising money to arm and supply them. By the
early 1980s, he had brought in heavy equipment and was using his skills to build
roads, landing strips, tunnels, storage depots and hospitals for the anti-Soviet
fighters. He even took part in the fighting, becoming something of a legend.

His post-war disillusion with America was sharpened by what he saw as the supine
acquiescence of the Saudi establishment to American power during the 1991 Gulf
war against Iraq. He went on the warpath - against the presence of American
troops in Arabia, and in favour of the hapless Palestinians. When we buy
American goods, we are accomplices in the murder of Palestinians, he thundered
in one of the 250,000 cassettes of his speeches that were distributed throughout
the Muslim world. Hugely embarrassed, the Saudis expelled him from the kingdom
in 1991 and revoked his citizenship in 1994. He ended up in 1996 under Taliban
protection in Afghanistan, where he still is, living in caves and dodging about
with a small escort for fear of an American attempt to capture or kill him.

Just as he is a hero in much of the Muslim world, so he has become America's
"Public Enemy No 1", with a $ 5m reward on his head, accused on scant evidence
of involvement in the devastating bomb attacks of August 1998 on the US
embassies in Kenya and Tanzania. He has become a symbol of Muslim resistance to
the West, but Reeve's unsupported statement that he "commands an army of some
5,000 terrorists, all of whom seem willing to kill and die for the Islamic
cause" must be treated with considerable scepticism.

A very different Afghan Arab is Ramzi Yousef, a Pakistani brought up in Kuwait,
who, after studying elec trical engineering at Swansea, became an instructor and
master bomb-maker in the American-funded camps around Peshawar. After the Afghan
war, he, too, turned against his former patrons, with deadly effect. In February
1993, he nearly succeeded in bringing down the two 110-storey towers of New
York's World Trade Centre. Pursued around the world, he was captured in Pakistan
and is now serving a 240-year sentence in Supermax, a maximum-security prison in
Colorado.

Reeve is at his best in reconstructing Ramzi's dreadful exploits and the huge
manhunt that finally brought him to justice. His book will be read with profit
by Muslim militants for its detailed, insider account of how the FBI, CIA and
other agencies get their man. His references show that he had ample access to
western intelligence sources, but there is no evidence that he ever met an
Afghan Arab or attempted to penetrate the mind of a Muslim activist, except
through the filter of a police investigation.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Terrorism; Books

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              395 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 30, 1999, Thursday

WELL, HAVEN'T YOU HEARD? NEW LABOUR REALLY IS NEW BRITAIN;
 'THE VOTERS WILL RE-ELECT THE GOVERNMENT WITH THEIR HEADS RATHER THAN WITH
THEIR HEARTS'

BYLINE: Anne Mcelvoy

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1104 words


PETER MANDELSON, who used to be very big in the late Nineties, walked into a
Bournemouth bar crowded with delegates. No one turned a hair. Gordon Brown
bestrode the seafront with the gait of a man who never loses sight of his
ultimate destination. No one noticed. Mo Mowlam consumed ice-cream. Last year,
the sight of Mo and a vanilla cone used to inspire an orgy of rubber-necking.
This year, she licked in peace.

The Government has become an uncontroversial, wholly settled fact of life.
Before 1 May 1997, it charmed us by its Pygmalion transformation from the gutter
of Old Labour failure. Since then it has groomed and regroomed itself until its
vowels and deportment are flawless. It rarely disgraces us in public. Henry
Higgins would be impressed. Its joys, its woes, its highs and lows, are second
nature to us now. We've grown accustomed to its face.

Tony Blair leader has firmly anchored New Labour as the rightful, successful
party of government. I watched his conference performance flanked by a couple of
delegates who had taken their seats with all the anticipatory verve of people
facing an imminent appointment with one of those NHS dentists we are all
supposed to be able to find from now on.

By the time Tony was promising to free us all from the chains of a Conservative
century's oppression, they were flushed and applauding. The man on my right, a
trade unionist of 30 years' striking, told me he didn't like the boss and his
team - his exact words were, "they think they're the dog's bollocks". Yet he
liked having Labour in power because that meant that "we" were in charge. I
asked who "we" were, given that he thought Mr Blair was in a very different
political tribe to his own. He thought for a few seconds and said, "Anything
that's not the Tories, really."

Anything that's not the Tories is what we've got. A recent Gallup poll records
that a majority of people thought that the Prime Minister was "nothing special",
but that the Government was competent. In the politics of a post -ideological
age, "nothing special" is a strength, not a weakness. Mr Blair is the modern
British Everyman, a seamless blend of visionary change and a pragmatic sense of
the limits of what politicians can achieve in the era of global capital.

He is also a weaver of spells, a spinner of dreams. Some of the passages in his
speech rose to absurd heights of rhetorical extravagance. As long as a single
child lived in poverty in Britain, he said, Labour's mission would not be
completed. The Utopian streak and the confidence in the intervention of
government would have been familiar to Keir Hardie and the party's founders a
century ago. Does Mr Blair ever believe that there will come a day when no child
at all, anywhere in the UK, will be so afflicted? Of course not. But he knows
that the party will hear his words one way: as a continuation of the culture and
instinct that made Hardie describe it as "a religion".

The voters will take the flights of rhetoric with a pinch of salt and re-elect
the Government, as Mr Blair predicted, with their heads rather than their
hearts. New Labour does nothing without strategic intent and Mr Blair's purpose
this year was straightforward, namely to identify New Labour as intimately as
possible with the attitudes and aspirations of mainstream Britain, and to
portray any dissenters as outre and marginal. The Addams Family Tories are
"weird, weird weird", and the "forces of Conservatism", including Martin Luther
King's assassins, fox-hunters, people who harbour doubts about the wisdom of
Britain joining Emu and opponents of changing Clause 4, were checked in on the
side of the balance sheet marked "bad, mad and dangerous to know". All good
Blairites line up in serene unanimity on the other, the good side of the line.

The shift from party political and ideological loyalties into a far more diffuse
cultural divisions has profound implications for the way we are treated by
government. Not all of them are nice. In an episode of Seinfeld, the luckless
character named Kramer set off on an anti-Aids march but refused to wear the
standard issue looped red ribbon. He ended up shinning up a lamp-post to escape
the fury of the illiberal mob of liberals.

The flaw and strength in the Blairite project is the harsh majoritarianism on
which it is built. "For the many, not the few" is a highly effective slogan,
because it encapsulates the determination of this Government to widen access to
society's goods and opportunities. But it neglects the necessity of protecting
those who fall outside its random definition of whose rights are inalienable.
Today, it may be people you don't like very much: the pro-hunt lobby, hereditary
peers, General Pinochet, noisy neighbours.

But how do we feel about the sweeping anti-terrorist legislation, about Jack
Straw's attacks on travellers and whoever the next target on the radar screen
should happen to be? Mr Blair has defended DNA testing of suspects on the hoary
old grounds that it is worth trading one teeny-weeny right to ensure that kids
aren't sold drugs at school.

Doubtless Salem didn't have much of a teen drug problem, either, but that
doesn't mean it should be a model for New Britain. Beware politicians of
whatever colour who seek to trade away freedom on the promise that this one -off
curtailment of liberty is the essential precursor to curing a social ill.

This Government is a supremely strategic political force with the potential to
eclipse all challenges for a very long time to come. It is constructing a new
paradigm of British politics that moves beyond the traditional American and
European democratic models of one block of opinion on the moderate left and one
on the moderate right, between which voters shuttle from time to time, depending
on their mood, the economic conditions and the Government's competence in
office.

New Labour intends to become identical with the mainstream of national life: to
establish an eclectic clutch of its orthodoxies as the norm, to which all
alternatives are wacky and suspect. After only a couple of years back in power
after a long absence, it has already eclipsed Conservatism as the party expected
to govern Britain for the foreseeable future. For its beginnings as a protest
movement 100 years ago, that is a long way to have come. Tony Blair, the man who
made the Labour Party normal, deserves a hearty salute for this achievement. It
should be followed by a memo to self from all half-way alert citizens of the New
Britain: remember that it is your right and duty to be just a little awkward now
and then.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour delegates at the party conference in Bournemouth Paul; Penrose

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              396 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 30, 1999, Thursday

CLOSE THE NET ON CRIME;
 NOW YOU CAN TURN IN CRIMINALS BY E-MAIL WITH AND CRIMESTOPPERS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 34, 35

LENGTH: 1966 words


By TRICIA PHILLIPS

IT'S the newest weapon in the fight against crime - instant access to the
Internet to help police track down criminals.

The Mirror has teamed up with Crimestoppers to use the latest technology to make
Britain a better, safer place.

From tomorrow, using our own ic24 Internet service, we are linking Crimestoppers
to every computer in Britain.

Home Secretary Jack Straw saw the potential immediately.

"Fighting crime requires the support of everyone," he said. "Getting information
about the activity of criminals to the police is essential if we are to make our
communities safer.

"People who want to help the police can now use the Internet thanks to the
website created for Crimestoppers by The Mirror and ic24."

The collaboration between ic24 and Crimestoppers means that you can help catch
the criminals simply by clicking onto www.ic24. net/crimestoppers and, in
complete confidence, e-mail any information you may have.

The website has an untraceable e-mail system which allows you to submit
information anonymously.

Since Crimestoppers was set up in 1988, over 340,000 calls have led to the
arrest and charge of 32,000 people and property worth over pounds 45.5 million
has been recovered.

But we want to catch more villains. And with this new website and your help we
can achieve this.

The site already lists more than 40 serious crimes which we hope you can help
solve. The murder of Jill Dando is featured with an appeal by the Metropolitan
Police for help.

It doesn't matter how small or insignificant the information you have, don't
hesitate to e-mail.

Even the tiniest detail could be the vital key to a brutal crime.

MURDER

2am

Wednesday

July 21

LEEDS

PATRICK and Margaret Spencer were the victims of a fatal house fire in Sandiford
Terrace, Manston, Leeds, which was started at around 2am on Wednesday July 21.

Patrick, 85, and Margaret, 77, had been married for 55 years and lived at the
same address for 45 years.

Accelerants were poured through the letter box and ignited, causing the deaths
of both pensioners.

The letter-box flap was removed from the front door and taken away by the
arsonist.

Have you seen a discarded letter box flap in your garden, hedge or anywhere else
it could have been dumped? This could be a vital clue in finding the killers of
these two senior citizens.

Police are asking for people who may have known the elderly couple but have not
yet been seen by the police to come forward.

They also want anyone who had contact with the Spencers during the days and
weeks leading up to the fire to contact them as a matter of routine so that they
can be eliminated from the investigation.

They are particularly keen to hear from anyone who was in the Manston Lane area
of Leeds on the night of the fire.

Police are trying to trace two white teenagers, aged between 16 and 17, who were
spoken to by Patrick at about 9.45 one evening in June.

They were sitting on his garden wall and he told them to move.

A possible clue is that after the arson attack, an anonymous letter (pictured
above) was received by the police. Do you recognise this handwriting?

Detectives want to trace the author of the mystery note, which was posted to a
police station three weeks after the horrific incident.

The author simply wrote: "Dear sir, I am writing to you about the incident in
Sandiford Terrace."

Unfortunately, the letter ended there - without any further information.

E-mail or contact the incident room hotline on 0113 2413789.

BURNT: The couple

RIDDLE: Police were sent this note

RAPE

6.30pm

Tuesday

January 26

BATH

BATH police need your help to catch a man who they believe attacked two women,
raping one of them, in the city on January 26.

The first incident happened at 6.30pm. A woman of 39 was driving along Forester
Lane and stopped at the junction of Beckford Gardens. Her door was pulled open
and a man climbed in. She was forced into the passenger seat and threatened but
managed to escape.

The second incident was at 6.45pm. A 40-year-old woman was parking her silver
Mini in the Widcombe area of Bath when her driver's door was pulled open. A man
ordered her into the passenger seat and drove to the Monkton Combe area where he
raped her.

The rapist then drove the woman back to near where he picked her up and parked
near the Garden Centre in Prior Park Road and left the area.

Police want to hear from anyone who may have seen a white man aged 30- 40
wearing a black, shiny coat and black/grey jeans and a mid-grey or washed-out
black baseball cap with a Batman logo on the front. E-mail or contact
Crimestoppers on 0800 555 111.

TERROR: Attacker

MURDER

August

1977

Shipley

YORKSHIRE

DETECTIVES investigating the murder of Mary Gregson have reopened a 22-year -old
hunt to find her killer.

They will use new forensic DNA methods to build a genetic profile of the man
police believe killed the Shipley, West Yorks, woman.

Mary, 28, was killed as she walked half a mile to work along the towpath of the
Leeds-Liverpool Canal. She was attacked and strangled before the killer dumped
her body in the river.

Det Supt Brian Taylor, leading the investigation, has appealed to members of the
community past and present to think back to the time of the murder.

He said: "Although Mary's murder took place so long ago, we are aware that it is
still talked about by people in the Shipley district and is still very much in
their minds."

More than 9,000 people have been interviewed since her death in August 1977.

E-mail or contact the incident room hotline on 01274 537422.

STRANGLED: Mary

SEX ATTACK

5.05pm

February 21

NEWCASTLE

to BRISTOL

A STUDENT was the victim of a serious sexual assault which took place on the
17.05 train from Newcastle to Bristol on Sunday, February 21.

The student was travelling from Teesside to the West Country and was attacked in
one of the carriages.

Lots of students returning to universities and colleges in various parts of the
country are known to have travelled on the same service.

British Transport Police want to trace everyone who travelled on the train for
any part of the journey.

Virgin Trains have offered a reward of up to pounds 5,000 for information
leading to the arrest and conviction of the person responsible.

The suspect is a white male in his early twenties, about 5ft 9ins and of medium
build. He had short brown hair and a fringe.

E-mail or call British Transport Police on 0800 40 50 40 or 0113 243 6686.

MURDER

7.35pm

Saturday

Jan 26 1997

EXETER

SCHOOLGIRL Kate Bushell was murdered as she walked a neighbour's dog near her
home in Exwick, on the outskirts of Exeter.

Kate, 14, set off from her home in Burrator Drive at 4.30pm on Saturday,
November 15, 1997. She failed to come home. Her parents became concerned and
called the police.

A police murder team of 80 officers began house-to-house inquiries and found her
body in a field next to Exwick Lane at 7.35pm that evening. She had been
brutally murdered.

Kate had volunteered to walk her neighbours' dog, Gemma, a Jack Russell, so they
could go away for the weekend. She told her parents she was going out for no
more than 20 minutes.

She took a route along Exwick Lane which divides the private estate of modern
red-brick houses from unspoiled countryside, a route along which many people
walk their dogs.

Police do not know whether Kate's killer was lying in wait for a victim, had
followed her from her home or may be someone she had arranged to meet in the
unlit lane.

Police want to trace a man who was seen running from the general area where
Kate's body was found at between 7.30pm and 7.50pm on the day of the murder.

He was around 5ft 10ins tall, about 30-35 years old, medium build with short
brown hair and a moustache. He was wearing a blue sweatshirt with a wet patch on
his chest area and jeans and trainers which were muddy.

Do you know this person? Are you this man?

Exwick Lane and the fields around it are often used as a "Lovers' Lane".

Police want any couples who were in the area on the evening of Kate's murder to
come forward. All information will be treated with the strictest confidence.

There is a pounds 30,000 reward for information leading to the arrest and
conviction of the vicious murderer of Kate.

The killing was featured on Crimewatch but the murderer remains at large.

E-mail or contact the incident room hotline on 01392 451659.

FATAL WALK: Kate

RECONSTRUCTION: Did you witness Kate's last movements?

MURDER

7pm

Tuesday

January 10

ESSEX

CHEF Keith Forster was bludgeoned to death with a machete or meat cleaver.

He was left for dead after a horrific attack which saw his skull fractured in
two places. Mr Forster, 50, owned a set of kitchen knives, including a cleaver,
which has never been found. Police say the killer struck between 5pm and 7pm on
January 10, 1997, at Mr Forster's home in Overhall Lane, Steventon End, Ashdon,
near Saffron Walden, Essex.

A friend visited him at 4pm that day and he was fine. Another pal spoke with him
an hour later. Detectives have been unable to establish a motive or find the
killer.

Mr Forster had been depressed. He was in debt after the failure of a wine bar in
Saffron Walden, in which he owned shares.

Mr Forster's estranged wife Frances and their two young daughters had left the
family home several months before the killing.

Police want to hear from anyone in the Steventon End area between 4pm and 7pm on
the day of the murder. E-mail or contact the incident room hotline on 01799 513
232.

KILLED: Mr Forster

MURDER

Weekend of June 26 and 27

SWANSEA

DETECTIVES want to trace this woman in their hunt for the killer of three
generations of a Welsh family.

Grandmother Doris Dawson, 80, Mandy Power 34, and her children Katie, 10 and
Emily, eight, were killed in their home in Kelvin Road, Clydach.

Police believe the murderer struck between 11.45pm on Saturday, June 26 this
year and 4.30am the following day. The killer set fire to the house in a
desperate bid to cover up the grisly scene.

Eye witnesses have reported seeing this woman sitting on a wall next to a phone
kiosk at Mond, Clydach, shortly before 1am on the Sunday morning. She was white
but tanned, in her late 20s or early 30s with dark shoulder- length hair and 5ft
5in tall. A solid-gold chain was recovered from the murder scene.

They also want to hear from anyone who remembers a diesel-engined vehicle which
was heard near the house around 12.45am on the Sunday morning. Anyone with any
information can e-mail Crimestoppers or call the incident room on 01792 562 731.

SUSPECT: Police efit

ROBBERY

11.15am

Monday

Sept 13

CONGLETON

A pounds 15,000 REWARD has been offered for information leading to the arrest
and conviction of a raider who robbed the Royal Bank of Scotland in High Street,
Congleton, Cheshire, on Monday September 13 at 11.15am.

The man approached the counter, produced what appeared to be a firearm, which
was contained in an old-style green Marks & Spencer carrier bag.

He demanded cash, the cashier gave it to him and he left the bank on foot,
heading through the town centre.

The man is described as white, aged between 40 and 50 and approximately 5ft 8ins
tall.

He was wearing a bottle-green baseball cap, silver-rimmed glasses, navy- blue
fleece and khaki trousers with white trainers.

Police want to hear from anybody who saw the incident or can assist in
identifying the offender.

E-mail or contact the incident room hotline on 01260 271144.

HUNT: Bank raider

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT: Jack Straw

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              397 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 4, 1999, Monday

DEMOCRACY DYING - MOLYNEAUX;
 'UNION MAY NOT HAVE A FUTURE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 465 words


FORMER Ulster Unionist leader Lord Molyneaux denied on Saturday that he was at
odds with David Trimble - even though the two men have sharply different views
of the Belfast Agreement.

Lord Molyneaux had told the Young Unionist conference that the accord could have
sounded the death knell for unionism.

"Unionists and the Union may not have a future. In Northern Ireland, democracy
is almost abolished," he warned.

"In the enforced Good Friday Agreement, obscure phrases came to mean what the
two governments chose them to mean.

"No intelligent person can regard it as durable or workable."

Lord Molyneaux said the Agreement proposed a "weird experiment", making it
compulsory for the parties to form an executive and return to the same posts
even if they fell out and had an election.

"It follows that general elections become irrelevant and a veneer for non
-existent democracy", he argued.

"How then is public influence to make any impact?"

He blamed business leaders and self-styled opinion-makers for demanding that
elected representatives "cobble together a novel apparatus which defies common
sense".

And he declared that the UUP could not trust the Assembly team to support the
traditional pledge to uphold the Union with Great Britain when they were bound
by law to cooperate with parties intent on destroying it.

"These reflections lead to manifestos for councils and for Westminster," he
added. "Time is of the essence for we cannot safely assume the Blair government
will run its full five years."

Speaking to reporters afterwards, Lord Molyneaux denied falling out with Mr
Trimble.

"It's quite clear that the party executive is absolutely rock solid in backing
David Trimble in having no truck with any party who are engaged in or associated
with those who are engaged in terrorism."

Lord Molyneaux said he did not think it was likely Mr Trimble would enter into
government with Sinn Fein on the "mere promise" of decommissioning.

"I have consistently abided by the policy of the Ulster Unionist Party
executive. David Trimble and I are as one on that."

Mr Trimble was right to say the Good Friday accord was the best deal on offer at
present, he said, but that did not rule out the alternative of democratic
administrative devolution, like the Welsh system.

Senior Ulster Unionist negotiator Dermot Nesbitt said his party had gone
"downhill all the way" from 1980 to 1995 while Lord Molyneaux was UUP leader.

Mr Trimble was "trying to row back that position" to give Northern Ireland a
democratic, accountable government with the absence of terrorist violence.

The South Down Assemblyman, who took part in a panel debate at the conference,
said he had no doubt Lord Molyneaux had done his best as he saw fit.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RUC VIEW: Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan addressing the
conference; OLD GUARD: ex-leader Lord Molyneaux

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              398 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 4, 1999

WHAT THE PAPERS SAY

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 174 words



TIMES: Renegade republican terrorists are planning an attack on the Millennium
Dome, according to Irish Special Branch sources.

TELEGRAPH: Tennis star Greg Rusedski collected the 840,000 prize for winning the
Compaq Grand Slam Cup in Munich.

INDEPENDENT: The tortuous process of buying a home will be over in days rather
than months under new rules to be unveiled by the Government this week.

GUARDIAN: A survey of 50 of Britain's leading internet tycoons reveals they have
amassed a staggering fortune of 1.3bn between them in little more than four
years.

EXPRESS: Jack Straw is considering plans to make offenders wear chain gang
-style uniforms when they carry out community service.

MIRROR: Frank Dobson is set to join the race to be London's mayor.

SUN: Two strangers had sex in front of other passengers on a transatlantic jet
as cabin crew begged them to stop.

STAR: Anna Nicole Smith is poised to inherit 300 million from her billionaire
90-year-old husband J.Howard Marshall, four years after he died.


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              399 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 1999, Tuesday

TORY PARTY CONFERENCE: ANCRAM LAMBASTS THE 'CULT OF TONY';
 CHAIRMAN'S ADDRESS

BYLINE: Colin Brown Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 389 words


TORY LEADERS launched a personal attack on Tony Blair, criticising his "supreme
arrogance" in a strategy aimed at destroying the "Cult of Blair".

The attack came from the party chairman, Michael Ancram, but will be reinforced
during the rest of the conference by William Hague and his shadow cabinet
ministers.

Focus-group findings have convinced the Tory high command that Mr Blair is
vulnerable to the charge of arrogance and failing to deliver election promises.
The Prime Minister's key speech to his conference, lambasting "forces of
conservatism", infuriated Tory leaders, and was described by Mr Ancram yesterday
as "an insult to all those Conservatives who through this century have served
their country."

The speech was an "almost fanatical exercise in demagoguery ... Strutting,
ranting, hand-waving, heart-bleeding, sound-biting, sick-making: an unmitigated
hour of puffed up posturing." The Tory assault marks a shift from criticising
Labour's policies to personal abuse of Mr Blair, in the belief it will chime
with growing disillusionment of Labour's core supporters with "Tory Tony".

Mr Ancram told cheering representatives: "Our most important target is Tony
Blair." Accusing Mr Blair of trying to deceive the voters, the Tory chairman
added: "It's all about image. That is why he speaks with his hands."

Spreading his arms, Mr Ancram went on: "There is one expansive hand movement
which had puzzled me for months - you know the one - until I suddenly realised
that it is the universal gesture of fishermen through the ages to describe the
whopper that go away.

"He has tried to turn Britain into his own fantasy land, where promise and image
are everything and reality counts for nothing."

Mr Blair last week accused the Tories of undermining the Government's search for
peace in Northern Ireland. Mr Ancram, a former Northern Ireland minister,
attacked the release of terrorists, which is part of the agreed peace process.
He said that in "Blairland" the IRA ceasefire was intact, but in reality people
were getting shot, and not a single IRA bullet or gun or ounce of Semtex had
been handed in.

The Tory chairman also accused Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, of
being "Tony's lapdog", and declared that the Lib Dems were the "dirtiest
fighters in British politics".

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              400 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 6, 1999, Wednesday

THE CULTURE OF FATALISM THAT SPELLS DISASTER ON OUR TRAINS;
 'WE ASSUME THAT TRAINS WILL BE OVERCROWDED, DIRTY AND LATE. BUT AT LEAST THEY
SHOULD BE SAFE'

BYLINE: Rupert Cornwell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 843 words


IT IS the sheer banality of circumstance which renders a train accident
especially shocking. You use the car to go out, to visit friends. You take a
plane to go abroad, to go on holiday. But the train is the drudge-horse of the
everyday. For most of us, the railway is for going to work in the morning and
coming home in the evening. The experience is one not to be enjoyed but to be
endured. The summit of achievement is to find a seat and read a newspaper or a
decent book.

But at least it is supposed to be safe. Car accidents are two a penny - and who
travels by plane without a fleeting thought, at least once during a flight, of a
terrorist bomb or some sudden, deadly, mid-air mechanical failing? But the
train? You suffer, to be sure. But the counterpart of that suffering, in an
advanced economy like Britain's, should be the certainty you will not suffer
trauma, injury or violent death. Unless of course, you happened to be two miles
outside Paddington Station at 8.11am yesterday. And the most dreadful thing of
all, as the bodies were counted, the injured treated, and the charred and
mangled carriages winched from the line, was that somehow, the scenes seemed
so... normal.

The truth of the matter is that Britain has been relatively disaster- free in
the 1990s, after the anni horribiles that were the late 1980s. There was
Hillsborough, there was Bradford, there were King's Cross, Clapham Junction, the
Marchioness, the Herald of Free Enterprise, the M1 air crash - a rollcall of
dreadful accidents in which hundreds died, crammed into three years between 1987
and 1990.

In this newspaper, that succession prompted the late Peter Jenkins to write a
1989 column entitled "Britain's Drift Towards Recurring Disaster", which
discerned a Third World pattern to tragedies caused by over-crowding, poor
facilities, poor management and individual human incompetence - the same factors
that might bring about a ferry sinking in Haiti or the Philippines, a train
crash on the plains of India, or (as yesterday) a bus crash in Indonesia which
killed 45 people.

Above all, however, just as in Haiti, India or the Philippines, there was an
inevitability about the British accidents; a sense, in Peter Jenkins' words, "of
human life held cheap". The faults that caused them were well-known beforehand:
wooden escalators at King's Cross which were firetraps, a rickety stadium at
Bradford, obsolescent signalling at Clapham, ring-fenced terraces at
Hillsborough from which in emergency there was no escape. But nobody did
anything, and sooner or later, catastrophe was bound to strike.

In the decade since, however, our football stadiums have been modernised and
made safe; even the London Underground, unsalubrious in so many ways, is safer
than it was. But a Third World miasma of fatalism and inevitability still
pervades our railways. Of course train crashes occur in other developed
countries. Germany's railways are a cliche for excellence. But that did not
prevent more than 100 people from dying in the 1998 Eschede disaster, caused by
poor maintenance of rolling stock. In the US, I seem to remember, scarcely six
months would pass without a serious Amtrak crash during the period I worked
there.

But in Britain it is different. Here you take it for granted that trains will be
dirty, overcrowded, as often as not late. You are resigned to signal failures,
rolling stock breakdowns and the other excuses wheeled out to explain
cancellations (assuming of course you can understand announcements made over
public address systems with the sound quality of a 19th century phonograph). The
railways may have been privatised since the late 1980s, but in truth nothing has
changed - not even the propensity for calamity.

Only a full investigation will reveal why the Paddington collision happened on
the same line as, and just a few miles from, this country's last major rail
accident at Southall in 1997. The Southall public inquiry resumes next week,
amid demands that it be broadened to cover yesterday's accident. Whatever is
established as the proximate cause, we may be sure that chronic under-investment
and mismanagement will be found to have played a part.

Of course, the private rail companies will insist, just as the publicly owned
British Rail used to insist, that the problem is being dealt with. They will
explode with outrage at any suggestion that the value of human life means less
to them than a sound bottom line to their balance sheets. But anyone who takes a
train - whether commuter or long distance - in France, Germany or Switzerland
sees with their own eyes how far Britain lags behind the countries against which
it must measure itself.

And from personal experience, my conviction is that the gap, far from narrowing,
as we are told, is growing. The difference between ourselves and the Third World
is that we have the money to set matters to right, but the Third World does not.
But we and they share one thing: a habit of bland official assurances that fly
in the face of the facts.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              401 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      October 7, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

Link suspected between shooting and IRA bomb - Police want to quiz ex-soldier

BYLINE: by Neil Mckay chief Reporter

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 542 words


   AMAN wanted for questioning in connection with the IRA bombing of British
Army barracks in Germany is also a suspect in the shooting of British agent
Martin McGartland.

Michael Dickson, who is in his thirties, is a suspected member of a five-strong
cell which attacked the Army base at Osnabruck, the biggest British barracks
outside the UK.

The former British soldier, whose father was a Scots-born Army sergeant, is
believed to have rented a holiday cottage at Sandhatten, near Oldenberg, used by
the terrorist group of three men and two women in the run-up to the June '96
attack.

The attack failed in its intention of killing Army personnel when only one of
the three mortars made it over the base's perimeter fence, narrowly missing
their petrol station target.

Police and Army intelligence officers in Britain also suspect that Dickson, a
former Royal Engineer with training in explosives and mortars, helped with an
IRA attack on Thiepval barracks, the Army's Northern Ireland headquarters in
Lisburn.

They say he provided a military swipe card and details of security precautions
to terrorists who smuggled two car bombs onto the base, killing Warrant Officer
James Bradwell, of Springwell, Gateshead, and injuring 34 civilians.

In 1991 Dickson married Anna O'Driscoll, a sales administrator, making him
eligible for Irish citizenship. He left her in 1995.

He lives openly in Dundalk, in the Irish Republic, where he works as a mini-cab
driver. His presence there poses a dilemma for both British and Irish
authorities. Apprehending him would antagonise the Republicans, while failure to
arrest him for alleged crimes that carry terms of life imprisonment would anger
Unionists.

There is no extradition treaty between the Republic and Germany, where
authorities have issued a warrant for his arrest.

They believe he was assisted in the Osnabruck attack by Roisin McAliskey, who
was released from British custody last year, despite an extradition warrant from
Germany.

Northumbria Police say they are looking for two men with Irish accents and one
with a Scottish accent in connection with the shooting of Mr McGartland behind
his home in Duchess Street, Whitley Bay, on June 17 this year. Northumbria
Police refused to comment when asked by The Journal whether Michael Dickson was
a suspect in the McGartland shooting.

But sources close to the investigation have linked his name with the attempt on
Mr McGartland's life. Detectives have also linked bullets used in the McGartland
shooting with those used to assassinate an Irish drug dealer in a Newry bar.

Mr McGartland, a 29-year-old father-of-two, survived, despite having seven
bullets pumped into his body. He is currently under armed police guard in a safe
house.

As an IRA infiltrator, the information he passed on to his Special Branch
handlers helped save the lives of 50 potential terrorist victims before his
cover was blown and he had to move to the North-East.

He is taking legal action against Northumbria Police, claiming they failed to
provide adequate protection, despite his warnings that his life was in danger
from an IRA hit squad.

Police say they are keeping "an open mind" about who was behind the
assassination attempt.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              402 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 10, 1999, Sunday

SORRY PLEA TO IRA;
 BIRMINGHAM WANTS APOLOGY FORBOMB

BYLINE: Jason Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 263 words


COMMUNITY leaders in Birmingham have asked the IRA to say sorry for the worst
ever bomb attack in Britain.

They hope the terror group will apologise for the bombing which killed 21 people
in the English city in 1974 before next month's 25th anniversary.

The Provos have in the past said the slaughter was a mistake but have never
formally spoken any words of regret.

However, republican sources in Belfast suggest that it is "out of the question"
to think that the IRA "is going to start apologising for military operations".

Senior clergy and victims of the atrocity have also thrown their weight behind
the calls.

Birmingham Conservative MP Norman Fowler has voiced his feeling that an apology
would be welcomed.

One woman, Diane Hancox, who lost her father in the blast, said: "I think the
IRA should own up to what they did and say they are sorry. But I don't expect
for a minute they will."

And Unionists here echoed the thought. UUP councillor Jim Rodgers said the
terror group would be saying sorry "all day" if it developed a conscience.

"It would be a big development, but the IRA continued to bomb and murder the
heart out of Northern Ireland since 1974 and they have never apologised for any
of that," he said.

It was November 21, 1974 when the IRA bombed Birmingham's Mulberry Bush and
Tavern in the Town bars.

A murder trial following the bomb led to one of the biggest miscarriages of
justice in British legal history.

Six men were caged for life for the murders although they were released on
appeal after 16 years.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: A body lies in the wreckage of the 1974 bomb

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              403 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            October 17, 1999, Sunday

BREAKAWAY REPUBLICAN GROUP HAS 100 MEN

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 348 words


THE breakaway Republican terror group responsible for the Omagh bomb has now
recruited nearly a HUNDRED active members.

And it is planning a return to violence within weeks unless new Northern Ireland
secretary Peter Mandelson can achieve a swift breakthrough in the stalled peace
process.

The Real IRA has now swallowed up most of the other dissidents in the other
splinter group, the Continuity IRA, and has been furiously signing up
disenchanted hardline Provos as well.

That means it has almost quadrupled in size from the 25 members who planned the
Omagh outrage which killed 29 people in August last year.

Now intelligence chiefs believe the Real IRA is planning another massive bombing
campaign in the North which could stretch to Britain.

Irish Special Branch have already uncovered a plot to blow up the Millennium
Dome in the New Year.

And a Real IRA bomb factory was raided last month in the Republic near the
Rosslare ferry terminal which would have given terrorists easy access to
Britain.

The Real IRA was condemned by other Republicans after Omagh and intimidated by
angry Provos into calling a ceasefire.

"But it was not a credible ceasefire, merely a tactical one," a senior security
source told Irish Sunday People. "The Real IRA remains totally opposed to the
peace agreement."

The Real IRA and the Provisionals are both committed to the goals of Brits out
of the North and a united Ireland.

"The difference is that the Provos see the peace process as the way to achieve
their political ends," the source added. "Whereas the Real IRA is much more
sceptical about what politics can achieve.

"They think they can only get their own way through terrorism."

And the fact they have been able to recruit so many new members despite the
Omagh bombing has terrified intelligence bosses because of the damage they could
now do.

Although not as sophisticated as the 350-strong Provos the Real IRA have enough
hardened terrorists for an orgy of death and destruction. They have even set up
their own seven-man ruling Army Council.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              404 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 17, 1999, Sunday

POLICE HERO AT PUB BOMBING CAN NEVER FORGET... OR FORGIVE;
 FIRST OFFICER ON THE SCENE AT DEVASTATED PUB DESCRIBES THE CARNAGE IN OUR
SERIES ON THE BIRMINGHAM PUB BOMBINGS

BYLINE: Bob Haywood

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 619 words


NOVEMBER 21 this year will be a special day in the life of Derek Bradbury.

It is the 22nd birthday of his youngest daughter, Charlotte.

But, before the festivities get into full swing, he will pause for a few moments
of quiet contemplation.

The date is also firmly fixed in his mind for an entirely different reason.
Exactly three years before Charlotte's birth, Derek Bradbury was the first
rescuer to fight his way into the shattered remains of the Mulberry Bush pub.

The Mulberry Bush, together with the nearby Tavern in the Town, was ripped apart
by an IRA bomb.

Twenty-one people were killed and 167 injured in the worst terrorist outrage in
mainland Britain.

And, 25 years on, Derek Bradbury will stand quietly to mark the night he went to
hell and back.

On the night of the pub bombings, Derek Bradbury was a police constable on
routine Panda patrol in the city centre.

Together with his partner, WPc Maggie Adams, he was directed to the Rotunda in
New Street to investigate a bomb warning.

The two officers were starting a search when a massive explosion rocked the
landmark office block.

Pc Bradbury and WPc Adams rushed around the corner to be confronted by scenes of
unbelievable chaos.

The front of the Mulberry Bush, since re-named the Bar St Martin, had been blown
into the street. The interior was a tangled heap of debris.

Mr Bradbury said: "I told Maggie to stay outside because I feared there might be
another bomb.

"Together with a civilian, I went into what was left of the pub. It was dark,
with water running everywhere from broken pipes, and a strong smell of
explosives.

"The first thing I saw was a woman staggering towards me. Her whole stomach was
ripped away. We helped her outside but I think she was one of the fatalities.

"There was a man lying on his back whose legs had been blown off just below the
waist.

"His lower legs were completely missing and the flesh had been stripped from his
thigh bones which were sticking out like wishbones.

"If he wasn't dead then, he must have died later. Another man said: 'I think
there is something wrong with my leg'. I looked down and saw his leg had been
blown off below the knee.

"A young woman was lying completely naked in the wreckage, her clothes having
been ripped off in the blast. She appeared to be uninjured but I heard her death
rattle.

"I took off my police mac and laid it over her. Even in death, she deserved
dignity.

"Before that night, I had seen some awful sights in my police career, and I saw
others later. But I have never witnessed anything as horrific as in the Mulberry
Bush.

"It was like a vision of hell."

Soon afterwards, other police officers and fire and ambulance crews arrived. Pc
Bradbury returned to Digbeth Police Station - his only "counselling" a stiff
whisky from a senior officer.

Although he did not get to bed until 1am, he was back on duty the following day
to guard the barriers erected around the Mulberry Bush.

Pc Bradbury never received a commendation or indeed wanted one because he was
"only doing his job".

He neither applied for, nor was offered, any compensation, saying: "I wouldn't
have accepted it because I would have felt soiled."

Mr Bradbury, of Harborne, Birmingham, retired last month from West Midlands
Police at the age of 51 after 33 years' service. He is now a college caretaker.

He said: "When people find out I used to be a police officer, they often say to
me: 'You must have seen a few nasty things'. I just reply: 'One or two'.

"I know that on November 21, the memories will come flooding back. It is a night
I will never, ever forget - nor will I ever forgive those responsible."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HORROR.. retired police officer Derek Bradbury says he can never forget
PICTURE: Ed Maynard ROYAL VISITOR... the Queen visits members of the emergency
services and others caught up in the Birmingham pub bombings -; Derek Bradbury
is fourth from the right

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              405 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 21, 1999, Thursday

10 QUIZZED AS ARMS DUMP IS DUG UP

SECTION: Pg. 29

LENGTH: 358 words


IRISH police were today questioning 10 men after unearthing an arms and
ammunition dump during investigations into the activity of suspected dissident
republican terrorists.

Officers also found a purpose-built underground firing range during police raids
yesterday on farmland in the north Co Dublin and neighbouring Co Louth areas.

The men arrested were all detained under the terms of Irish anti-terrorist
legislation, and were being questioned by detectives at police bases in Co
Dublin and Co Louth.

The 10 men arrested were all in or near an underground bunker, which housed the
firing range.

Police sources said the range was in a one-time wine cellar on a farm near the
Co Dublin village of Naul.

Police also discovered an AK-47 assault rifle - the IRA's favourite weapon
during their 30 years of terrorism ahead of the current ceasefire - a heavy duty
machine gun, a handgun and ammunition.

There was speculation that the machine gun was of a type capable of bringing
down helicopters.

The men were being questioned by detectives at four different police stations in
Co Dublin and Co Louth.

It was confirmed that the operation was part of on-going police investigations
into the activities of dissident republican paramilitary groups thought to be
planning to merge and launch a new terrorism campaign.

The operation marked the third in the past two weeks by police acting on
security information indicating that breakaway republican hardliners opposed to
the Northern Ireland peace process, were aiming to re-start terror strikes in
Britain and Ulster.

The prospect has been highlighted by police chiefs on both sides of the Irish
border.

Police activities have been targeted on people linked to the Real IRA terrorists
responsible for the mass murder bomb attack on Omagh, Co Tyrone, last year, when
29 people died and another 200 injured, and the Continuity IRA, the alleged
military wing of the Republican Sinn Fein Party.

Republican Sinn Fein split from the mainstream party more than a decade ago,
when Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness took Sinn Fein along a more political
road.

C1

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              406 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 21, 1999

NEW IRA REBELS PLAN CHRISTMAS BOMB BLITZ

BYLINE: BY SARAH WOMACK POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 509 words


A NEW IRA terror group formed in the run-up to Christmas is planning a bombing
campaign, Ulster's top policeman warned last night.

RUC Chief Constable Sir Ronnie Flanagan said he believed the Province - and
possibly England - faced a "significant threat" from a coalition of republican
terrorists calling themselves Oglaigh n Eireann.

The group is said to represent members of the Real IRA, Continuity IRA, INLA and
some disillusioned members of the Provisional IRA.

There was no evidence to suggest co-operation between the Provisional IRA and
the dissident groups - indeed there were signs of increasing friction between
the two, Sir Ronnie said on BBC's Newsnight. But his force had little doubt the
new terrorist group was planning an attack, particularly along the Northern
Ireland border.

While he had no specific intelligence to suggest they were planning a strike on
mainland Britain "clearly it cannot be ruled out," he said.

Earlier yesterday Peter Mandelson blundered by referring to himself as Secretary
of State for Ireland instead of Northern Ireland.

The gaffe, within minutes of his Commons debut as Northern Ireland supremo, led
to uproar on the Tory benches. It provoked a row with Unionist MPs and prompted
questions about the wisdom of his quick return to the front line.

Unionist hardliners said the mistake was even more appalling in the wake of
comments he had made to a conference fringe meeting in favour of a united
Ireland. But Mr Mandelson's officials dismissed it as a "mindless slip" which he
had corrected within seconds.

Ulster's politicians retorted that language and terminology was everything in
Ulster politics. Jeffrey Donaldson, Ulster Unionist MP for Lagan Valley, and a
potential future party leader, said: "It was probably a slip of the tongue, but
someone as 'politically correct' as Peter Mandelson really should use his
language a little more carefully."

Mr Mandelson's appointment in Tony Blair's reshuffle last week - after a
10-month exile - had been welcomed by all in Ulster who believed he held a
neutral position.

But when his fringe meeting remarks, albeit made in 1994, surfaced at the
weekend, they were dismayed. Comparisons were immediately made with Mo Mowlam,
his predecessor, who came to be viewed by Unionists as too much in thrall to the
nationalists.

For the rest of Northern Ireland questions, Mr Mandelson gave a surer-footed
performance - even in the face of provocation by Shadow Ulster Secretary Andrew
Mackay whom he had just asked for support in restoring the bipartisan political
approach to Ulster politics.

Reminding Mr Mandelson of the GBP 373,000 home loan from former treasury
minister Geoffrey Robinson, which had led to his resignation from the Cabinet in
December, Mr Mackay said: "The Tories cannot give you a blank cheque in terms of
support, unlike the previous Paymaster General." Mr Mandelson replied, with a
smile: "As it happens the cheque wasn't actually blank and I'm glad to say has
now been repaid with interest."

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 1999 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              407 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 21, 1999

Weapons seized and 10 held in Irish police raids

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words


Irish police arrested 10 men and found arms and ammunition during continuing
investigations last night into the activity of dissident suspect republican
terrorists.

The men were arrested in or near what was thought to be a purpose-built
underground firing range, during raids on farmland in County Dublin and County
Louth. They were detained under the terms of Irish anti-terrorist legislation.
An AK-47 assault rifle, a heavy duty machine gun, a handgun and ammunition, were
seized.

The operation was the third in the past two weeks by police acting on security
information indicating that breakaway republican hardliners opposed to the
Northern Ireland peace process were aiming to re-start terror strikes in Britain
and Ulster.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              408 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 24, 1999, Sunday

GRISLY SOUVENIRS OF SUE AND JOHN'S NIGHTMARE;
 IN THE LATEST OF THE MERCURY'S SERIES RECALLING THE BIRMINGHAM PUB BOMBINGS
FOUR MORE PEOPLE TELL HOW THE NIGHT OF CARNAGE SCARRED THEIR LIVES

BYLINE: Bob Haywood

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 980 words


JOHN Rattigan has permanent grisly reminders of the Birmingham pub bombings.

Twenty-five years after the Tavern in the Town was blasted to smithereens by the
IRA he is still picking fragments of debris from his body.

Only two weeks ago, John went to his GP to have a shard of glass removed from
the back of his knee.

The sliver had been deeply embedded in his leg when the bomb went off and had
gradually worked its way to the surface. Two years ago, the recovered object was
a piece of wood.

His wife, Sue, has a row of tiny lumps on each eyelid which cover tiny pieces of
glass that were hurled into her face. They will probably stay there forever.

The devastating explosion also cost John his hearing - both eardrums were burst
by the deafening blast, his left beyond repair.

He had to undergo two operations to fit a revolutionary plastic eardrum but his
hearing has been slowly deteriorating and, two years ago, he had a hearing aid
fitted. He also suffers from tinnitus.

John has long since recovered from the flash burns on his legs and the severe
gashes to his legs and neck. Sue no longer has to worry about the fractured
cheekbone and displaced breastbone she suffered in the blast.

But it is a night forever etched in their memories.

John and Sue were out for a quiet drink on Thursday November 21 1974 when they
became victims of the worst terrorist outrage on mainland Britain.

Twenty-one people were killed and 167 injured when IRA bombs ripped through the
Tavern in the Town and the nearby Mulberry Bush.

Aged 21, John was a factory worker in Coventry and Sue Thomas, as she was then,
a 24-year-old civil servant living in Tyseley, Birmingham.

The couple had met nearly two years earlier in Rebecca's, a since-closed
nightclub in Birmingham city centre, and became engaged eight months before the
fateful night.

John went into Birmingham by train to meet Sue and they were planning to join
friends in the Tavern in the Town - at the time an "in" place for young people.

For once, the train was punctual and John and Sue arrived at the cellar pub 15
minutes before they were due to rendezvous with the other couple.

Had they been a few minutes later, like their friends who arrived in the city
centre after the twin explosions, they would have been spared the nightmare.

John bought himself a pint of bitter and his fiancee a Bacardi and lime. As the
pub was crowded, they stood near a pillar, their drinks on a shelf in front of
them. Seconds later, the bomb erupted.

John said: "I never actually heard the explosion. There was a blue flash and all
the lights went out.

"I was thrown about 10ft backwards. The main thing I remember is the terrific
heat. It was like standing in front of a furnace with the door open.

"I had no idea where Sue was. Then a lad gave me his cigarette lighter and I
could see just her head showing above a huge pile of rubble. The roof had
collapsed on her.

"Although I was bleeding badly, I managed to free Sue and we both managed to
stagger outside. We were patched up at the hotel opposite and then taken to
hospital by taxi."

John is reticent about the scenes of horror inside the Tavern in the Town,
saying simply: "I saw a few bodies."

Sue was unable to see the carnage because her contact lenses had been torn off
by the force of the blast.

The young lovers were treated at the since-closed Birmingham Accident Hospital
and put side by side in the ward.

A slightly-embarrassed John said: "It wasn't romantic notions that made staff
put us in beds next to each other. Patients were just shoved in wherever there
was room.

"We were later moved to single-sex wards, like everyone else."

The couple were both discharged four days later but not before they had chatted
to the Duke of Edinburgh who visited "The Accy" in the aftermath of the
bombings.

Among the relatives who rushed to their bedsides was John's father, Joseph.

Poignantly, he kept his voice down and spoke as little as possible while in the
hospital because he was Irish, having been born in County Roscommon in the
Republic. Even with his own son lying injured it was wise to maintain a low
profile, such was the wave of anti-Irish revulsion in the Midlands at the time.

Joseph Rattigan, who moved to Coventry as a teenager, died in 1984 in the
country of his adoption and the country he loved so dearly - England.

After leaving hospital, John and Sue went ahead with their wedding plans and
were married at Sacred Heart Roman Catholic Church in Acocks Green, Birmingham,
seven months later.

They now live in Coventry and have two children - Laura, 18, and Michael, 14.

Every year, John and Sue lay flowers at the memorial to the victims of the pub
bombings in the grounds of St Philip's Cathedral in Birmingham, on the
anniversary of the day of shame.

They plan to attend the memorial service in the cathedral on the 25th
anniversary - Sunday, November 21.

The Sunday Mercury, backed by relatives of the victims, community leaders,
politicians and senior clergymen, is calling on the IRA finally to admit
responsibility for the pub bombings - and to apologise.

John said: "I think those responsible should apologise but I don't think they
will and they will certainly never face trial.

"We know we did not suffer as much as many others so we were able to make a
conscious decision to try to put it behind us. The world moves on."

Over the coming weeks the Sunday Mercury will publish further articles on the
pub bombings. We will also be printing letters from readers about their
recollections of the night and its aftermath. Write to Birmingham Pub Bombings,
News Desk, Sunday Mercury, 28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AZ. Please include
your name and address and telephone number where possible. You can also e-mail
us on bob_haywood@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUFFERING... Sue and John still have reminders of the bombings; HAPPY
COUPLE... John and Sue Rattigan on their wedding day

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              409 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 25, 1999

General

SECTION: Pg.16

LENGTH: 942 words


JANUARY: The European Single Market comes into being, but some countries,
including Britain, will still insist on passports to prevent terrorism. Without
bloodshed, Czechoslovakia ceases to exist, splitting into Slovakia and the Czech
Republic. In Sicily, Salvatore Riina, Mafia "boss of bosses", is jailed in
Palermo. The England XV defeat France in the Five Nations rugby championship.
Renowned ballet star Rudolf Nureyev dies of Aids at 54. Actress Audrey Hepburn
also dies at 63.

FEBRUARY: At least seven are killed, hundreds injured and thousands trapped when
a bomb rocks the World Trade Center in New York City. In Haiti, up to 1,700 are
feared killed when a ferry capsizes. The Queen is now to pay income tax and
capital gains tax on her private income; Prince Charles's income from the Duchy
of Cornwall will also be taxed. Football legend Bobby Moore, who led England to
victory in the 1966 World Cup, dies at 51. Film legend Lillian Gish, 96, and US
tennis player Arthur Ashe, 49, also die.

MARCH: In the US, Florida doctor Dr David Gunn, 47, is killed by an
anti-abortion assassin. Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson is banned for life after
failing a drugs test. A wave of bombings in Bombay kills up to 300 and leaves
hundreds injured. In Britain, a 1,400-year-old yew tree in Hampshire dies.
British actress Emma Thompson wins an Oscar for Howard's End.

APRIL: A huge IRA bomb rips through central London, killing a man, injuring 44
and causing damage estimated at GBP 1 billion. The Grand National is declared
void after demonstrators run on to the Aintree course seconds before the race is
due to start. A 51-day siege at Waco, Texas, ends in an inferno and the death of
up to 90 people when the FBI storm a fortified compound occupied by a religious
cult led by David Koresh - it was feared that the compound held an illegal
arsenal. In Hamburg, tennis star Monica Seles is wounded by a man with a knife.
Author Leslie Charteris, creator of The Saint, dies at 85.

MAY: In Florence, a bomb blast at the Uffizi Gallery kills five and damages art
treasures. In Britain, nurse Beverley Allitt is convicted of killing four babies
in a Grantham hospital. Businessman Asil Nadir, boss of the failed Polly Peck
company, jumps bail and flees to Cyprus. William Randolph Hearst, the US press
magnate, dies at 85.

JUNE: Film director and comedian Woody Allen loses his custody battle for his
three children with ex-partner Mia Farrow after finding romance with Mia's
adopted daughter, Soon-Yi. For the first time, the governments of Canada and
Turkey are headed by women, Kim Campbell and Tansu Ciller respectively. In
Somalia, UN troops raid the headquarters of warlord General Aidid but fail to
capture him. James Hunt, motor racing golden boy of the Seventies, dies of a
heart attack at 45. Cornish author Sir William Golding, famous for the novel
Lord of the Flies, dies at 81.

JULY: Large areas of the American Midwest are devastated by floods, leaving at
least 50 dead and 20 million acres of farmland swamped; a similar state in Nepal
leaves 1,700 dead and up to 250,000 homeless. An Israeli court allows John
Demjanjuk, called Ivan the Terrible, to walk free when he is found not guilty of
war crimes. Cricket all-rounder Ian Botham announces his retirement; Graham
Gooch resigns as England's cricket captain. The historic Elstree film studios
are to close.

AUGUST: England's women cricketers beat New Zealand in London; the England
cricket team wins the sixth Test against Australia. In Budapest, racing driver
Damon Hill claims his first Formula One victory in the Grand Prix. In New York,
Briton Mark Nyman wins the World Scrabble Championship. Film actor Stewart
Granger dies at 80.

SEPTEMBER: Former bitter enemies Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin and PLO
leader Yassir Arafat shake hands on a peace deal in Washington which gives
Palestine limited autonomy in the Gaza Strip and West Bank. Prince Sihanouk, who
abdicated 38 years ago, returns to reign in Cambodia. In Manila, former First
Lady Imelda Marcos is jailed for 18 years for corruption. Actor Raymond Burr
dies of cancer at 76.

OCTOBER: A hardline rebellion against Soviet leader Boris Yeltsin is crushed by
the army. Benazir Bhutto, ousted from power three years ago, returns as Prime
Minister of Pakistan. Nelson Mandela and President de Klerk of South Africa win
the Nobel Peace Prize. Veteran socialist Andreas Papandreou is elected Premier
of Greece. In Belfast, an IRA bomb planted in a chip shop kills nine people,
including two young girls; in Londonderry, Ulster Freedom Fighters fire on a
pub, killing seven. Dying are Irish actor Cyril Cusack, 82; Liberal statesman
Lord Jo Grimond, 80; and horror film actor Vincent Price, 82.

NOVEMBER: Pop superstar Michael Jackson cancels a world tour amidst allegations
that he has been involved in abusing a 13-year-old boy. England's World Cup
hopes are crushed in Bologna when they are defeated by tiny San Marino - manager
Graham Taylor will resign. The beautiful Ottoman 16th-century bridge in the
Bosnian town of Mostar is destroyed by Croat shelling. British columnist Jill
Tweedie, 59; author Anthony Burgess, 76; and Italian film director Federico
Fellini, 73, die.

DECEMBER: Spacewalking astronauts from the shuttle Endeavour repair the Hubble
Telescope which developed a fault in its optical system. Colombian drug baron
Pablo Escobar is trapped and shot by police in Medellin. Aborigines celebrate in
Australia as their right to claim back lost land is confirmed. Dying are rock
musician Frank Zappa, 52; soccer star Danny Blanchflower, 67; and Britain's
oldest person, Daisy Adams, 113.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              410 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 26, 1999

National dates Sub Head:

SECTION: Supplement: Plymouth People's History, Pg.4

LENGTH: 471 words


MARCH 31, 1990: A huge riot starts in London when 300,000 protest about the
introduction of poll tax.

JULY 8, 1990: Footballer Paul "Gazza" Gascoigne blubs as England suffer a
heartbreaking World Cup semi-final penalty defeat by West Germany.

NOVEMBER 22, 1990: Mrs Thatcher quits as Tory leader after more than a decade as
Prime Minister. John Major takes over.

JUNE 29, 1991: Civil war breaks out in Yugoslavia as Serbian troops try to
suppress independence bids in Croatia and Slovenia.

AUGUST 17, 1991: Journalist John McCarthy is freed after five years as a Beirut
hostage. In November hostage Terry Waite is released.

NOVEMBER 5, 1991: Newspaper tycoon Robert Maxwell drowns after falling from his
yacht off the Canary Islands.

AUGUST 9, 1992: Athlete Linford Christie wins 100 metres gold at the Barcelona
Olympics and motor racer Nigel Mansell is world champ.

NOVEMBER 20, 1992: Fire sweeps through Windsor Castle. Queen later says year has
been an "annus horribilis".

DECEMBER 9, 1992: Buckingham Palace announces Prince Charles and Princess Diana
are to separate. Princess Anne is to wed Royal Navy Commander Tim Laurence.

FEBRUARY 22, 1993: Two 10-year-old Liverpool boys appear in court after the
murder of two-year-old James Bulger in Liverpool.

APRIL 3, 1993: The Grand National ends in chaos after a false start.

FEBRUARY 15, 1994: Police are removing bodies found in the "House of Horrors"
home of Gloucester builder Fred West.

JUNE 6, 1994: Britain commemorates the 50th anniversary of the D-Day landings.

NOVEMBER 14, 1994: More than seven million National Lottery tickets are sold on
the first day of the new weekly draw.

JANUARY 30, 1995: Manchester United's French striker, Eric Cantona, is in
trouble after attacking a fan at a game in London.

MAY 31, 1995: Three people die when the 137-year-old sailing vessel Maria
Assumpta is shipwrecked of Padstow.

AUGUST 16, 1995: The South West is gripped by the longest drought since 1976.

MARCH 13, 1996: Former scout master Thomas Hamilton kills 16 children, their
teacher and himself at Dunblane Primary School.

JUNE 15, 1996: A huge IRA bomb destroys the centre of Manchester.

JULY 18, 1996: Launceston College schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson, 13, is found
murdered in a French youth hostel.

MARCH, 1997: Channel 5 is launched.

APRIL, 1997: The Grand National is abandoned after an IRA bomb threat is made.

JUNE, 1997: Hong Kong is handed back to China by Britain.

FEBRUARY, 1998: Warships sail for the Gulf once more as tension builds between
the Allies and Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein.

AUGUST, 1998: A huge terrorist bomb destroys the centre of Omagh, Northern
Ireland.

SEPTEMBER ,1999: A huge earthquake devastates parts of Turkey.

OCTOBER, 1999: About 30 people died when two trains collided near Paddington
Station.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 1999 Evening Herald

                              411 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          October 27, 1999, Wednesday

DIARY OF EVENTS

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 934 words


1973: Jan 1. Britain and Ireland join the Common Market. Feb 7. Irish Unionists
call a one-day strike. June 22. Tennis stars boycott Wimbledon. Nov 14. Princess
Anne marries Captain Mark Phillips.

1974: March 6. Miners end their strike after the offer of a 35 per cent pay
rise. March 20. Attempt to kidnap Princess Anne fails. May 17. IRA car bomb
kills 23 people in the rush hour.

Oct 1. The first McDonald's hamburger restaurant opens. Oct 10. Labour wins the
General Election.

1975: Feb 11. Margaret Thatcher becomes first woman to lead a Britain political
party. Feb 28. 35 people killed in worst-ever crash on Underground. July 11. Pay
rises are to be limited to pounds 6 a week. August 21. Jobless figures reach
1.25 million.

1976: Feb19. Iceland breaks links with UK over "cold war." April 5. James
Callaghan is the new Prime Minister. Oct 24. James Hunt wins motor racing world
championships. Nov 27. 30,000 join Ulster women's peace march. Dec 4. Poet
Benjamin Britten dies 63.

1977: January 29. Seven IRA bombs explode in West End. August 3. Kerry Packer
takes English cricket authorities to court. August 11. Geoff Boycott scores his
100th century. Sept 26. Freddie Laker launches cheap Skytrain service. Dec 25.
Charlie Chaplin dies.

1978: July 8. Bjorn Borg wins his third Wimbledon title. Sept 6. Gerry Adams is
released from jail. Nov 30. Publication of The Times is suspended. Dec17. IRA
begins Christmas bombing campaign

1979: February 9. Trevor Francis becomes first pounds 1m footballer. March 2.
Scots vote in favour of devolution. August 27. Earl Mountbatten killed by IRA
bomb. Sept 2. Yorkshire Ripper claims his 12th victim. Nov 21. Sir Anthony Blunt
is exposed as a Russian spy.

1980: March 27. 100 killed in oil rig disaster in North Sea. April 22. Jobless
figures reach 1.5m. June 12. English soccer fans run riot at Euro championships.
Oct 19. Yorkshire Ripper claims his 13th victim.

Long haul to world status

WELL PLACED: Plans are in place covering a 10-year period, during which greater
capacity will be added each year as the business grows.

Birmingham International Airport has come a long way since 1984, when the Queen
opened the new passenger terminal.

Many will remember the previous terminal with affection, as it was probably the
setting off point for their very first flight and foreign holiday.

But the old terminal became ever more congested and work on the new commenced in
1981.

Since it was completed record numbers of passengers have gone through and
improvements will maintain its place as a truly international airport.

It is all a long way from 1928, when the city council first took the decision
that Birmingham should have a municipal airport.

The depression and government cuts meant that plans had to be shelved, but they
were revived in 1933 and Elmdon chosen as the location.

The official opening took place on July 8, 1939 by the Duchess of Kent and early
services went to Croydon, with connections to the continent, and to Glasgow,
Liverpool and other British destinations.

When World War II broke out the Air Ministry requisitioned the airport and all
civil flying ceased.

Elmdon was then used as an RAF flying school, among other things, and the Air
Ministry built two hard surface runways to replace the original grass strips.

These were later to be of great benefit when civil flying recommenced on July 8,
1946, exactly seven years after the official opening.

British European Airways flew to Paris and six years later package tour flights
to the continent began - Zurich in 1955, Dusseldorf in 1956, Palma in 1958 and
Amsterdam and Barcelona in 1960.

From that time Elmdon became known as Birmingham Airport and passenger levels
grew from 30,000 in the early post-war years.

The terminal extension, called the International Building, opened in 1961 and
the first jet operations started in 1966.

By the early 1970s more than a million passengers were using the airport.

In 1986, with the abolition of the West Midlands County Council, ownership of
the airport passed to the West Midlands District Joint Airport Committee,
comprised of the seven district councils of the former West Midlands
administrative area.

A year later, its status changed to that of a public limited company, wholly
owned by the seven district councils.

Soaraway future

Increased demand for air travel will swell Birmingham International Airport's
passenger numbers from 6.7 million a year to around 9.5 million by 2005,
according to forecasts.

People want good, local airports to decrease travelling time. So, to meet the
projected demand meant that Birmingham Airport had to develop, particularly with
regard to its terminal capacity.

At the same time, due consideration had to be given to its impact on the
environment.

and any concerns which the local community may have.

Development plans are in place covering a 10-year period, during which greater
capacity will be added each year as the business grows.

The changes, crucial not only to the airport's future, but that of the region as
a whole, have already included an extension to the departure lounge, baggage
handling area and check-in concourse.

A new executive lounge for the Eurohub and other improvements, such as a new
office building, are all designed to make things run more smoothly.

Better access to the planes, improved baggage reclaim, road enhancements and
additional multi-storey car parking are further advances to take Birmingham
International Airport far into the millennium.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              412 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 1, 1999, Monday

LUXOR BUTCHERS MAIN SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Justine Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 267 words


AT least five terror groups could have downed the doomed jet.

But the most likely suspects are those responsible for the Luxor bloodbath.

Muslim extremists of Gamma'a al-Islamiyyah blasted 62 tourists to death in
Egypt's Valley of the Queens in 1997.

Intelligence men have been monitoring the group closely after foiling a plot to
hit UK targets in revenge for British and American bombings of Iraq.

The Egyptian Jihad movement has grudges against both America and Egypt.

Its warring factions have claimed responsibility for numerous terrorist
activities in Egypt, often targeting American interests. The radical Palestinian
group Hamas has always focused its attacks on America.

It was linked to foiled terrorist plots to blow up New York's subway system, UN
building and the World Trade Centre.

The Jihad splinter group Supporters of Shariah uses the Internet to recruit
support in America and Britain.

It claims to have links with the world's most wanted man, Sheik Osama bin Laden,
the terrorist thought to have masterminded the US Embassy bombings in Africa
last year.

The Iranian dissident group MEK has mounted numerous attacks on Western targets
to draw attention to its campaign against the Iranian Government.

British terrorism expert Professor Paul Wilkinson fears a bomb was to blame.

He said: "If any plane disappeared in these circumstances, so rapidly after take
off, without any warning, the possibility of a terrorist bomb on board could not
be discounted."

And last night air experts branded America's east coast an "aviation graveyard."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FEARS: Prof Wilkinson

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              413 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            November 7, 1999, Sunday

HEADY DAYS WHEN BRUM WAS THE POWERHOUSE OF BRITAIN - AND THEN THE IRA STRUCK
TERROR IN OUR HEARTS

BYLINE: Bob Haywood, Louise Palfreyman

SECTION: Pg. 26

LENGTH: 701 words


FOR those who witnessed the devastation of the Birmingham pub bombings, November
21, 1974, could have been only yesterday. Their harrowing accounts have included
graphic details of the sights, sounds and smells of the worst terrorist incident
ever in mainland Britain. But for most of us the memories of 25 years ago are
less clear. And, in the latest in the Sunday Mercury's compelling series on the
bombings, BOB HAYWOOD looks back at life in the city a quarter of century ago
and explains why Birmingham was expecting an IRA attack. And LOUISE PALFREYMAN
meets a survivor whose life remains wrecked after a quiet drink with friends in
the Tavern in the Town.
  THE Midlands 25 years ago was a totally different world.

The region was the manufacturing powerhouse of Britain - known and revered
throughout the world.

But workers in 1974 were not earning a king's ransom. A capstan operator at an
engineering factory could expect pounds 48 a week, while the civil service was
advertising for clerical assistants offering a wage of pounds 14.05 a week.

Three-bedroom semis in Northfield, Birmingham, were up for sale at pounds 8,500
while the list price of an Austin Marina 1.8 Estate was pounds 1,823.

The Prime Minister was amiable pipe-smoking Harold Wilson, Labour having come to
power in February, 1974.

But throughout 1974, like the year before, a dark shadow hung over the Midlands.
It was the terror campaign being waged by the IRA.

Explosives and incendiaries went off regularly at offices, factories and
warehouses throughout the region. An Army bomb disposal officer was killed as he
bravely tried to defuse an unexploded device in Edgbaston, Birmingham. But -
until the fateful night of November 21, 1974 - civilian targets had been off the
IRA hit list.

All that changed after James McDade was killed by his own bomb when he tried to
blow up the Coventry telephone exchange the previous week.

The "own goal" led to public fury when Republicans attempted to give his body a
military-style send off to Dublin for burial.

After his death, McDade, who was living in Birmingham, was acknowledged by the
Provisional IRA as a "lieutenant in the Birmingham Battalion" who "died on
active service."

On Thursday, November 21, 1974, the front page of the Sunday Mercury's sister
newspaper, the Evening Mail, was dominated with the volatile aftermath of
McDade's death.

The edition was printed several hours before two bombs went off at the Tavern in
the Town and the Mulberry Bush killing 21 innocent men and women and injuring
another 167.

At 8.11pm on Thursday, April 21, a warning was telephoned to The Birmingham Post
& Mail, publishers of the Sunday Mercury.

The caller, who gave an IRA codeword, said bombs were planted in The Rotunda and
the New Street tax office.

The warning left too little time for an evacuation to be ordered and

the first bomb went off at the Mulberry Bush a few minutes later and then the
second at the Tavern in the Town, 250 yards away.

Families who stayed at home that night could have watched Top of the Pops on
BBC1, followed by Sykes and Play for Today.

Over on ATV (later Central, then Carlton) was The Mystery Movie, with Banacek
and Father Brown, with Kenneth More.

The saucy comedy Confessions of a Window Cleaner was on at the cinema.

Bernard Manning and Marmalade were topping the bill at Barbarella's night club
in the city centre while tickets were selling fast for a Gary Glitter concert at
the Odeon in New Street on Sunday, December 1.

Football fans were still fuming over the previous night's 0-0 draw between
England and Portugal at Wembley.

But, so soon, the Midlands and its people were changed forever as Birmingham
became the target of the worst IRA outrage ever carried out, before or since, in
mainland Britain.

The Sunday Mercury will be publishing more articles on the bombings in the run
-up to the 25th anniversary and, on the day itself, your memories of November
21, 1974. Where were you on the night and what do you remember? Write to
Birmingham Pub Bombings, Newsdesk, Sunday Mercury, 28, Colmore Circus,
Birmingham, B4 6AZ or e-mail us at bob_haywood@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BYGONE DAYS... some of the well-known faces of 1974, the year the; IRA
struck - (from left) Bernard Manning, Harold Wilson, Derek Guyler, Eric; Sykes
and Hattie Jacques, Gary Glitter and Marmalade singer Sandy Newman

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              414 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 13, 1999, Saturday

HELP PLEAS FALLING ON DEAF EARS;
 IMAGES OF REFUGEES FLEEING CHECHNYA MIGHT LOOK SIMILAR TO KOSOVO, BUT THE WEST
WILL NOT BE TAKING ACTION THIS TIME, SAYS CHRIS GRAY.

BYLINE: Chris Gray

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 998 words


Refugees pour over the border fleeing a small province under bombardment by its
larger neighbour.

They plead to be allowed to cross the border while guards cause huge delays by
insisting on slowly checking all their papers.

Such a situation involving refugees from Kosovo fleeing to Montenegro provoked a
massive armed reaction from Nato powers against Serbia, whose military action
had caused the exodus.

But the latest flood of refugees is from Chechnya into Russia and there is
absolutely no threat of retaliation from Nato.

Russian jets have been bombarding the mountainous region of south Chechnya and
helicopters are attacking the capital of Grozny.

Meanwhile the president of Chechnya Aslan Maskhadov, which wants independence
from Russia just as Kosovo wanted independence from Serbia, has appealed to the
outside world to prevent the "elimination" of his people.

His pleas, like those of the refugees, are falling on deaf ears, because the
international community has decided it will not be intervening.

Russia has pledged not to stop its attacks until it has destroyed Chechen rebels
blamed for a series of terrorist incidents.

One man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter and in Kosovo, Nato decided
the Kosovo Liberation Army were the freedom fighters.

This time the alliance will not be taking the side of the rebels. It will not be
sending an air force to persuade Russia to stop its bombardment. It will not be
sending any forces to restore order and maintain the peace.

It will in fact be doing very little. Chechnya is viewed as Russia's own
internal problem, which it must sort out itself.

Nato-Secretary General Mr George Robertson, who as Britain's Defence Secretary,
led justifications for the action over Kosovo is clear.

It is not a matter for Nato, he says, although the alliance accepts the Russians
are occupying Chechnya and has "strong reservations" about it.

Given that after Kosovo, Nato is now the policeman of the world and reserves the
right to intervene in any nation's affairs, it seems extraordinary that Mr
Robinson is so adamant that Chechnya is nothing to do with him.

But the conditions for taking action laid down by Prime Minister Tony Blair
during Kosovo give the game away about why Nato will not get involved.

Mr Blair suggested five criteria for intervention.

They were: Are we sure of our case? Have we exhausted all diplomatic options?
Are there military options we can sensibly and prudently undertake? Are we
prepared for the long term?

Do we have national interests involved? With regards to Chechnya, the answer to
all of those except the first is "no".

The most crucial "no" is to the question about military options.

Intervening in Chechnya would be a logistical nightmare if not an impossibility.

It would involve taking action against Russia, which though it might be on its
knees economically still has more than enough fire power to make that
unthinkable.

Worse, to get to Chechnya Nato would have to go through Russia - which is
obviously not going to be allowed - or through similar unstable provinces of
Georgia and Azerbijan.

It is a non-starter, which means Nato and Britain's response to Chechnya will be
diplomacy, diplomacy and more diplomacy.

The Foreign Office believes Chechnya is fundamentally different to Kosovo in two
ways. First officials say there is no evidence that Russia's intention is to
deliberately drive a people from their homeland or is attempting the "systematic
elimination" of the Chechens through ethnic cleansing.

Secondly they say that in Kosovo all but three members of the United Nations
Security Council supported the Nato action, but there was no such consensus over
Chechnya.

"We have no international recognition or consensus that intervening in Chechnya
is a sensible thing to do," said one.

"There is often an assumption that there is one foreign policy proposition that
applies to all numbers of cases but it is not like that.

"It is a dangerous route to go down. You end up making a lot of mistakes if you
think there is one solution to very different problems.

The Foreign Office accepts that it has to do something, but that will be just
diplomatic moves. The best, most dramatic action they can point to is Foreign
Secretary Mr Robin Cook getting Russian Foreign Minister Mr Igor Ivanov to agree
to discuss the issue on the fringes of a summit next month.

Hereford's Liberal Democrat MP Mr Paul Keetch has more reason than many to
support intervention as one of his constituents was among the Britons who were
taken hostage and executed in Chechnya.

But he said he did not support action because it was a totally different
situation to Kosovo.

"Just because you intervene somewhere does not mean you have to intervene
everywhere.

"In the Kosovo situation the international community had effectively empowered
the UN to take action.

"There has been no such discussion about Chechnya. It is a rogue province of
Russia that wants to declare unilateral independence."

He acknowledged that it was possible to argue that Kosovo was a rogue province
of Serbia which wanted to declare independence but said the situations remained
different.

"The realpolitik is that we would not wish to intervene in a Russian situation
in the way we did over Serbia."

He said that was not just because Russia was more powerful than Serbia.

"I think it is actually that Russia has more legitimacy over Chechnya than
Serbia had over Kosovo, particularly given that Chechnya was descending into
absolute anarchy."

Mr Keetch said it was right that if anyone was to put a stop to the anarchy in
the province it had to be Russia.

"There is no state next to Chechnya from which international forces could have
moved, unlike in Kosovo when we could move from Albania or Montenegro.

"It is totally impossible for Nato to deploy forces for an intervention in
Chechnya," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Forgotten victims: As with the Kosovo conflict refugee camps have
sprung up like this one, showing security guards and children at the; Chechnyan
border.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              415 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 15, 1999

General

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 949 words


JANUARY: The Maxwell brothers, sons of the late tycoon Robert, are found not
guilty of fraud at a London trial. The Hubble space telescope reveals five times
as many galaxies as previously thought existed. In the US, the White House
releases crucial papers relating to the Whitewater property deals affair -
Hillary Clinton's billing records from her law firm. Yassir Arafat triumphs in
the Palestinian elections. Francois Mitterand, former French president, dies in
Paris at 79.

FEBRUARY: Chess grandmaster Garry Kasparov plays against IBM's Deep Blue
computer in Philadelphia and beats it 4-2. In the UK, black employees at a Ford
plant are paid compensation after their faces were replaced by whites in a
publicity shot. Fleur Lombard, 21, is the first firewoman to die on duty when
the roof of a burning superstore in Bristol collapses. Dancing star Gene Kelly,
of Singin' in the Rain fame, dies at 83; football manager Bob Paisley dies at
77.

MARCH: Robert Mugabe is elected president of Zimbabwe - he was the sole
candidate in the election. Three British soldiers - one, Pte Justin Fowler, from
Constantine, Cornwall - are convicted of the killing of Danish tour guide Louise
Jensen in Cyprus, and jailed for life. In the UK, a ban on homosexuals in the
military is to be retained. Rosemary West loses her appeal against conviction
for the Gloucester "House of Horrors" murders. A pair of cloned sheep, Megan and
Morag, are revealed in Scotland. In the US, the film Braveheart, starring Mel
Gibson, wins five Oscars. Comedian George Burns, 100, dies in Beverly Hills.

APRIL: Islamic terrorists in Cairo kill 18 Greek tourists. The effects of the
late Jackie Kennedy Onassis are auctioned in New York for around $500 million.
The FBI arrests Theodore Kaczynski, believed to be the Unabomber, responsible
for 16 bomb attacks in America. Gunman Martin Bryant runs amok in Tasmania,
killing 34. In the UK, Eric Cantona is voted Footballer of the Year. The
Westcountry has a good view of a total lunar eclipse. Actress Greer Garson dies
at 92.

MAY: Benjamin Netanyahu is elected Prime Minister of Israel. Boris Yeltsin and
Chechen leaders agree to stop fighting after a conflict costing 30,000 lives. In
the UK, Glen Hoddle is the new coach of the England football team. New evidence
on the use of organophosphorous (OP) sheepdips links it to high suicide rates.
In the US, Timothy Leary, who advocated LSD trips in the Sixties, dies at 75.

JUNE: In French Guiana, the European Ariane-5 rocket blows up after take-off.
Nineteen US servicemen are killed in a bomb attack on a truck in Saudi Arabia.
Renowned jazz singer Ella Fitzgerald dies in California at 79; US director of
the James Bond films, Cubby Brocolli, dies at 87; Greek statesman and ex-Prime
Minister Andreas Papandreou dies at 77.

JULY: A TWA jet explodes and plunges into the sea off Long Island, New York,
killing all 228 on board. Brothers Lyle and Erik Menendez are jailed for life
for murdering their parents in Los Angeles. Despite poor health, President
Yeltsin is again elected president of Russia. In the UK, more troops are sent to
Northern Ireland to counter loyalist violence. The Queen hails Nelson Mandela
the saviour of South Africa when he visits Britain. England striker Alan Shearer
is transferred from Blackburn to Newcastle United for a record GBP 15 million.
Silent screen favourite Claudette Colbert dies at 92.

AUGUST: Scientists in Houston, Texas, believe they have found evidence that
fossil bacteria from Mars invaded Earth after a meteorite collision about 4.5
billion years ago. The bodies of two girls are found in a basement in Belgium in
a house owned by convicted rapist Marc Dutroux - he is already in custody for
abducting and abusing two other girls. Dying are General Aydid, Somalian
dictator; and Sir Frank Whittle, inventor of the jet engine, aged 89.

SEPTEMBER: The US launches 27 cruise missiles against military targets in Iraq,
raising the spectre of a renewed Gulf War. History is made at Ascot when Italian
jockey Frankie Dettori rides the winners of all seven races. In Australia,
British tourist Brian Hagland is beaten to death on Bondi Beach in a random
killing. Brazil announces a crackdown on illegal logging in the rainforests.

OCTOBER: In Guatamala, 82 are killed in a stampede during a football World Cup
qualifier against Costa Rica. War between Hutus and Tutsis goes on as Tutsi
rebels seize a town in Zaire and half a million Rwandan Hutu refugees start to
flee. A badly built 11-storey block of flats collapses in Cairo, killing 15.
Pop star Madonna gives birth to a daughter. Character actress Beryl Reid dies at
76.

NOVEMBER: US President Bill Clinton is re -elected to the White House, beating
Republican challenger Bob Dole. Romania loses its communist government, toppling
hardline President Iliescu. Five are injured when a fire starts in a freight
train in the Channel Tunnel. In India, Hindus protest against the Miss World
contest being held in Bangalore. At least 351 are killed in a mid-air collision
in New Delhi. In the Indian Ocean, a hijacked jet crashes after running out of
fuel, killing 127. Comedy actor Michael Bentine, famous as one of the Goons,
dies at 74.

DECEMBER: In the US, Madeleine Albright becomes the first woman US Secretary of
State. Kofi Annan of Ghana becomes Secretary-General of the UN. In Britain,
nursery nurse Lisa Potts is hailed a heroine after an incident in Wolverhampton
in July when a man armed with a machete attacked a group of youngsters at a
picnic - Horret Campbell is found guilty of attempted murder. Actor/humourist
Willie Rushton dies after falling from a horse during the shooting of a film.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              416 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 15, 1999

Numbing horror of Dunblane... and dark days for fishing and farming

SECTION: Pg.

LENGTH: 2407 words


THIS is the year of the Dunblane massacre, when the IRA rescinds its ceasefire
and again bombs the mainland, when football restores its tarnished image with
Euro 96, and two royal couples divorce. Farmers face ruin as BSE takes its
dreadful toll, fishermen fear for their future, and lottery fever grips the
nation.

But as the year opens in the Westcountry, the dust is taking some time to settle
on Emma Nicholson's defection from the Tories to the Liberal Democrats. The
Torridge and West Devon MP in December "crossed the rubicon" of the Commons,
shocking the government and shrinking its parliamentary majority. At New Year
many constituents of Ms Nicholson, who was a senior Tory backbencher, are
calling for her resignation. But the waters are muddied further following a WMN
poll which seems to suggest she should stay... until it's discovered that
Lib-Dem organisers whipped up extra support for the phone poll, one source
alleging to the WMN that some in the party were asked to cast four votes each.
Not exactly an auspicious airing for Ms Nicholson's newly turned coat.

Neither is it a happy New Year for Westcountry fishermen. Last year saw EU
wrangles between Canada and Spain when Cornish fishermen flew the maple leaf in
support of Canada's stance in blocking Spain in the North Atlantic. With morale
in the industry slumping to an all-time low, many skippers decided to scrap
their trawlers. Now further European legislation is to allow up to 40 Spanish
boats at a time into the "Irish Box", a rich area of ocean traditionally fished
by Westcountrymen and from which Spaniards were previously excluded.

These are dark days for fishing communities - and like most others, they may
well pray for a win on the National Lottery. The nation is gripped by gambling
fever in early January when a double-rollover jackpot looms - it's estimated at
GBP 33 million but is likely to rise to more than GBP 40 million as huge numbers
of tickets are snapped up. Introduced in 1994, the lottery is fast changing
lives - some of them last year were Plymouth antique dealer Michael Antonucci,
who scooped GBP 2.8 million, and friends Stan Chitty and Philip Gunning, also
from Plymouth, who won GBP 2.9 million.

But not everybody sees it as a good thing - leading churchmen are warning that
the lottery encourages avarice and are denouncing the size of the current
jackpot as "obscene". They say the top prize - and Camelot's profits - should be
capped. Camelot says the more tickets it sells, the more will go to good causes.

In February any hope of lasting peace in Ireland is shattered when a bomb blast
in London's Docklands signals an end to the IRA ceasefire. Two die and scores
are injured in the explosion, which it seems came from a device planted in a
Ford truck with false registration plates. The terrorist action also leaves
damage estimated at GBP 100 million and an unknown future for the foundered
peace process - John Major and his Irish counterpart John Bruton are to meet
later this month in the hope of stemming the violence, but Sinn Fein leader
Gerry Adams says his party must be invited to talks before the ceasefire can be
restored.

Police are remaining vigilant because they are not certain whether this is a
one-off or the start of a renewed bombing campaign - but the latter is soon
confirmed when other blasts follow. One is on a double-decker London bus when
Irish terrorist Edward O'Brien is blown up by the bomb he is carrying; and in
June, the busy Arndale Shopping Centre in Manchester will be devastated and
people will flee for their lives as glass explodes out of shop windows. After a
coded warning, the area will be cleared but the blast is so powerful, glass is
hurled up to half a mile away, injuring more than 200.

Back in February, while the nation watches skirmishes between protesters and
security guards at the Newbury bypass, other "eco warriors" against the new
roads programme are dug in on the A30 in East Devon. On a conclave named after J
R R Tolkien's Lord of the Rings - Trollheim - they are living in "bender tents",
treehouses - or "twigloos" - and underground tunnels in an area cut off by a
defence moat. Their objections centre on dual carriageway improvements to the
A30 between Honiton and Exeter and, arriving on site in the autumn of 1994, they
have taken advantage of a delay in the scheme to make sure it will be extremely
difficult to move them. Above the ground, trees are linked to the original
Fairmile site opposite with a system of ropes and cables which will make
attempts to fell further timber an impossibility for the contractors. The
objective is to evict the group - but that will take some time.

Nobody in Britain is prepared, this same month, for the hell that erupts in a
quiet Scottish town when a gunman walks into the primary school and shoots dead
16 young children and their teacher. The scene is Dunblane, Perthshire, a place
which, like Lockerbie, will ever after be associated with horror and grief. At
9.30am, Thomas Hamilton, a former Scout leader, strides into the school
gymnasium, where a class of 29 five- and six-year-olds are about to start
morning exercise, and, using four handguns, shoots indiscriminately, killing
teacher Gwenne Mayor and 15 children, and fatally wounding another. In nearby
classrooms, pupils cling to each other as bullets spray in all directions, and
many youngsters are left seriously injured before Hamilton turns a gun on
himself.

The whole thing happens in two or three minutes of cold brutality and leaves the
nation numb with disbelief and horror. Harrowing scenes follow as parents rush
to the school gates to see if their children are among the dead and injured, and
break down in tears of frustration when they have to wait to hear the news they
dread. Later there are more tearful scenes as the uninjured but traumatised
survivors are reunited with their parents.

As the pall of grief settles over the town, the Queen and Princess Anne join
pupils, friends and relatives to lay flowers at the school gates. Funerals must
be prepared for, and the media - gathered in their hundreds - are asked to leave
and let the townspeople come to terms with what has happened. One man's evil has
devastated 17 families.

An astonishing fact is that Hamilton, known to police because of complaints
about his obsessive behaviour with young boys, and a known paedophile
photographer, was granted a firearms certificate. There are calls now to
urgently strengthen controls on firearms, and schools across the country are
looking at their security arrangements in the hope that this can never happen
again. But we don't want to turn schools into prisons and, as the WMN opinion
column points out, "you cannot possibly legislate for a madman with four guns
and crazed, murderous intent".

The end of February brings the announcement of the divorce of the Prince and
Princess of Wales after more than three years of separation. Diana, whose
Panorama interview last year caused a sensation, says she has reluctantly taken
the decision to end the 15-year marriage but is "immensely sad". She will still
have access to her sons William, 13, and Harry, 11, and for now will remain at
Kensington Palace. She will keep her title, but not its "HRH" prefix - a matter
of some contention - and speculation is that the rift will cost Charles GBP
15-GBP 20 million. He is the first heir apparent to divorce in the 1,000-year
history of the monarchy, but the Archbishop of Canterbury has indicated that it
will not bar him from becoming sovereign. The reigning monarch, meanwhile, is
urging her son and his soon-to-be former wife not to air their squabbles in
public. Their marriage will be ended in August.

The Duke an Duchess of York will also finalise their divorce in May, when Sarah
will talk of making a fresh start in her "quest for inner peace". She intends,
she says, to carry on her charity work and devote herself to daughters Eugenie
and Beatrice.

March brings a blow to livestock farmers which is the stuff of nightmares - the
announcement that the EU has placed an indefinite worldwide ban on British beef
exports. This follows UK reluctance to undertake a mass slaughter of cattle
which Brussels has demanded because of the health scare over BSE - bovine
spongiform encephalopathy - and now its possible link to a human condition, CJD,
or Creutzfeld-Jacob disease. Ministers are caught between a rock and a hard
place as they try to save the cattle industry but are lambasted by critics for
putting consumers at risk by insisting that our beef is safe.

Cattle prices have already plummeted in the West, with major buyers deserting
the markets after Health Secretary Stephen Dorrell's statement that exposure to
BSE was the most likely cause of ten recent cases of CJD. Fears are being raised
as to whether children are at risk from the brain-wasting condition if they eat
beef, and many schools will slap a ban on the meat until further notice. And yet
it is a puzzle - it will emerge that cases of CJD are no more prevalent here
than in other countries with no BSE, and that cases have been found in
vegetarian communities. Meanwhile, as new safety rules on animal feeds and
carcases are introduced, a programme of mass cattle slaughter seems inevitable.
British farmers face ruin.

More happily, the image of football is considerably brightened as mania for the
game has gripped England this year in Euro 96, when, in John Major's words,
"football has come home to England". The euphoria rolls on despite England's
defeat by penalty kicks in an exciting semi-final with Germany in June - and, as
the WMN report says, the national game has somehow turned around from being one
of thuggery and drunken yobbism to a family event with a new-found power in
European football. A fresh appetite for "the beautiful game" seems to have
emerged from the dark days of Hillsborough, Heysel and Dublin - and opposing
fans have largely mingled happily in a shared joy of the sport.

Added to that, there's the joy for Home Park fans over Argyle's promotion to
Division Two - it's hoped that gates for the Plymouth team will soar by 2,000 at
the start of the season. The mood at Torquay United and Exeter City is also
upbeat. For Euro 96, Germany go on to win the final at the end of June against
Czechoslovakia.

Less happy times are in store for the Westcountry in July when the murders of
two girls cause great grief.

The first is petite care assistant Nicola Parsons 18 whose naked body is found
in a derelict nursery in Stoke Plymouth where she was probably lured by her
attacker. He may have been someone known to her police think as there are no
signs of a struggle. Nicola just 5ft who had a flat in Mutley after moving from
her mother Marina's Eggbuckland home was raped and strangled. Her death is a
stark reminder in South Devon of the similar fate of Salcombe chambermaid Sandra
Parkinson 22 who fell victim to a rapist and killer two years ago. Later this
year Andrew McKinlay also of Stoke will be charged with Nicola's murder.

Hardly has all this sunk in than the region is aghast at the cruel death of
Launceston schoolgirl Caroline Dickinson 13 who has been raped and murdered
while on a trip to France. Shocked parents and staff at her school are numb with
disbelief at the tragedy after Caroline is found smothered in a dormitory she
was sharing with four other girls. The rest of the 40-strong party and five
teachers from Launceston College are still in the town of Pleine Fougeres near
St Malo assisting detectives with the inquiry. Somehow as the attack happened
Caroline's room-mates heard nothing. The nightwatchman on the door to the hostel
apparently saw nothing.

Caroline is described by her distraught grandfather Michael Valentine as a
"lovely girl who lived her life to the full". One neighbour in Tredydan Road
describes her as "a little angel". As her headmaster Alan Wroath arranges for
parents Sue and John to travel to France to identify the body French police are
questioning the school party. Their subsequent investigations will turn up
several suspects but they will be criticised for being "too casual" and
"dragging their feet".  Late in July as the school party returns to Launceston
the people of the town unashamedly show their grief at church services and at
Caroline's school where flowers toys and notes are piling up thickly on the warm
ground.

Again it's an Olympic year and for the centennial celebrations in the US city of
Atlanta Georgia there is a ceremony second to none in the history of the games
as 11 000 athletes from 197 nations gather to compete. Thousands of performers
spectacular fireworks and hi-tech projections add to the stunning scene and in a
poignant note Muhammad Ali once the world's greatest boxer but now bowed with
Parkinson's Disease proudly lights the Olympic flame. It is however a
disappointing Games for Britain which comes away with its lowest tally of medals
for years.

Worst of all the harmony of the event is devastated by a terrorist bomb which
explodes during a rock concert killing two and injuring more than 100. The bomb
was a crude home-made device and investigators suspect a white American male who
made an emergency call half an hour before the explosion.

With the great success of Euro 96 still hanging in the air football fans in
November shed a tear for the legendary former England centre forward Tommy
Lawton who has died at 77 after a bout of pneumonia. Tributes to Tommy whose
20-year career spanned World War Two are led by Sir Stanley Matthews himself a
legend of the game who remembers Tommy's great scoring record for England but
also "a great character a personality who everybody looked up to". To the end we
learn Tommy kept his twinkling sense of humour.

The year ends with a big slice of Cornish pride when sailor Pete Goss is at the
centre of a dramatic rescue while competing in the Vendee Globe round-the -world
race. The 34-year-old former Royal Marine from St German's turns back into
hurricane-force winds in the Southern Ocean to sail to the aid of Raphael
Dinelli - the Frenchman's waterlogged yacht has been dismasted and holed after
capsizing off Cape Leeuwin south Australia and is fast sinking under him. Next
year Pete will be showered with praise and honours.

- NEXT YEAR: 1997: Drama on the high seas; general election landslide for
Labour; the tragic death of Princess Diana

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              417 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               November 16, 1999

Traffic ban in city centre

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.8

LENGTH: 122 words


THROUGH traffic is to be banned from Manchester city centre as the main shopping
area prepares to re-open more than three years after it was ripped apart by an
IRA bomb, council chiefs were due to announce today.

The radical move being revealed by the Labour-controlled city council comes 10
days before the GBP 550 million redeveloped area around the site of Britain's
biggest mainland terrorist blast is unveiled.

Council chiefs said the strategy, one of the most adventurous to be adopted in
the UK, was planned to encourage greater use of public transport and provide a
safe environment for pedestrians and cyclists.

A new public transport interchange is to be constructed in the Shudehill area in
the next two years.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 The Gloucester Citizen

                              418 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 17, 1999

Blair aims to soothe fears of Middle England

BYLINE: Ben Leapman;David Shaw

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 765 words


TONY BLAIR addressed the worries of Middle England today with a Queen's Speech
containing 28 Bills that amount to his heaviest legislative programme yet.

He aimed fresh attacks on absent fathers, crime suspects and welfare dependency
after deciding to press ahead with an ambitious programme despite threats of
trouble in the Lords where emboldened Tory peers claim to be a more legitimate
force now their ranks have been shorn of hereditaries.

The Prime Minister was also out to prove the Government's commitment to
enterprise and fairness - and shows no signs of a slowdown in his reforming
zeal. Mr Blair admits in a party broadcast to be made tonight: "We have got a
lot done but there is a lot more to do."

He is under pressure to show that he is delivering and having got the economy
"back on track" says the Government can now concentrate on the rest of its
programme.

He compares the Government's position to Margaret Thatcher's at the end of 1981
- still at the height of reforming zeal, with two more general election
victories ahead.

Reforming Britain's welfare state will take centre stage. Time will also be
found for long-awaited Bills extending freedom of information, stiffening rail
regulation and lowering the gay age of consent.

Country landowners will oppose right-to-roam legislation, the most popular
choice among Labour back-bench MPs for inclusion in the speech. However, rural
campaigners will be grateful that the most controversial bill of all, measures
to ban fox hunting, will not be making an appearance following Jack Straw's
statement last week.

There could be consolation for animal rights campaigners in the form of a law
forcing the closure of Britain's 13 fur farms.

With hereditary peers consigned to history, the Government should, however, find
it easier to push its pro-gramme through the Lords.

In a sign of how well trailed the contents have been, Tory front-bencher John
Redwood jumped the gun yesterday with a statement headed "Queen's Speech fails
to deliver". Here are the some of the measures most likely to emerge: Welfare
reform: The benefits shakeup continues despite Commons rebellions by Labour MPs.
Low earners will be encouraged to take out second pensions.

Criminals who breach court orders will lose benefits. Workers will be
investigated after six weeks' sick leave. The Child Support Agency will operate
a simpler, tougher maintenance system for absent fathers with fines for
non-payers.

Transport: Congestion charges and workplace car park taxes will hit motorists in
the pocket. Privatisation looms for air traffic control. John Prescott finally
gets to set up the Strategic Rail Authority.

Criminal Justice: Some defendants lose the right to trial by jury.

Arrested suspects face mandatory drugs tests.

Stronger state phone-tapping powers will be introduced. The Probation Service
will be reformed, while an independent watchdog will oversee the Crown
Prosecution Service with the power to reopen dropped cases.

Race: The Race Relations Act will be updated and extended to cover police, in
line with recommendations of the Stephen Lawrence murder inquiry Countryside:
Ramblers get the right to roam on uncultivated land, and a stronger network of
rights of way.

More protection for wildlife areas, two new national parks, and a ban on fur
farms.

Leaseholds: New rights for flat-owners to buy their freehold, to collectively
manage a block, or move to "commonhold" tenure where they individually own the
land their flat stands on and collectively own the whole house or block.

Sexual offences: Age of consent for gay men will be cut from 18 to 16 in line
with heterosexuals. Safeguards to prevent abuse by adults in authority.

Possible repeal of controversial section 28 of the Local Government Act, which
banned councils from promoting homosexuality.

Utilities Bill: Regulators get stronger powers to enforce competition and cut
prices in the water and electricity industries.

Post Office: The Post Office becomes a state-owned Plc, gaining more commercial
freedom but losing part of its monopoly.

Social services: Homes for children and the elderly face inspections from a new
independent body.

Education: A shakeup of post-16 education and training. New learning skills
councils will replace training and enterprise councils.

Antiterrorism: Permanent powers replace the annually-renewed emergency
Prevention of Terrorism Act, with a new focus on animal rights groups and
religious cults. Funding of international terrorism comes under attack.


LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TONY BLAIR : "WE HAVE GOT A LOT DONE BUT THERE IS A LOT MORE TO DO"

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              419 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 17, 1999, Wednesday

LONDON MAYOR: LABOUR AND TORY HQS PLOT ATTACKS ON LIVINGSTONE;
 PARTY INSIDERS PREDICT DIRTY WAR AHEAD AS CAMPAIGN DESIGNED TO DISCREDIT AND
UNDERMINE 'RED KEN' BEGINS IN EARNEST

BYLINE: Paul Waugh Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 639 words


THE CAMPAIGN to undermine, discredit and eventually crush Ken Livingstone got
under way in earnest yesterday with savage attacks from both Labour and the
Tories.

Day one of the "Dirty War", as some Labour insiders have called it, was marked
by the Conservative Party issuing a memo urging all its MPs to describe Mr
Livingstone as "terrorist-friendly".

In a move that upstaged even Millbank's attempts to assassinate his character,
the "daily bulletin" from the Tory Research Department gives detailed advice on
attacking the former Greater London Council leader.

The memo, titled "The Line to Take - Red Ken", includes sections on "Livingstone
the Extremist" and attacks policies he has floated such as an airport tax and a
pounds 7.50 congestion charge for motorists. The election of Livingstone would
mean an unwelcome return of the Loony Left, terrorist-friendly, tax and spend,
socialist policies of the old GLC."

The advice from Conservative Central Office contrasts with the stance of its
candidate, Lord Archer of Weston-super-Mare, who only last month ruled out using
personalised negative campaigning against Mr Livingstone.

Labour's attempts to erode the Brent East MP's support started even before the
London Selection Board began its interviews yesterday with the four candidates
hoping to become the party's choice for Britain's first directly elected mayor.

Lord McIntosh, who was ousted as leader of the GLC by Mr Livingstone in 1981,
led the charge on the BBC Radio's Today programme, accusing him of disloyalty to
New Labour. Lord McIntosh also claimed that the MP had been offered and turned
down a ministerial job. The allegation, which is regularly circulated by
Blairites, was dismissed by the Livingstone camp as "pure fiction".

Tony Blair, who has already given public backing for Frank Dobson, will launch
the main assault against Mr Livingstone in an article in today's London Evening
Standard.

In a high-risk strategy that could backfire if the backbencher does win the
contest, Mr Blair will portray the battle as one between Old and New Labour. The
article is the first shot in a concerted Downing Street campaign, and will be
followed by similar comments from Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, and most of the
Cabinet over the next few weeks.

Ministers will portray Mr Livingstone as the embodiment of the "Loony Left"
years of the 1980s, echoing a letter to Labour members this week from Neil
Kinnock, the former party leader.

With most unions backing Mr Livingstone and MPs backing Mr Dobson, the party's
electoral college will be decided by the members in the capital. It is estimated
that Mr Livingstone needs to win the backing of at least 70 per cent of the
membership to have a chance of winning.

Although the party is supposed to remain impartial in the contest, the full
might of Labour's Millbank machine will be directed against the former GLC
leader.

Official rules prevent any candidate from "attacking or denigrating" their
rivals, but the Dobson camp believes that this does not rule out clashes over
their policies or record in government.

When Mr Dobson launches his manifesto on Thursday, it is expected that he will
be supported by at least 20 ministers as he pushes the message that he is the
only sensible choice for the nomination.

However, Mr Livingstone's campaign, now set up in an advertising agency in
central London, will do its best to counter what it calls the "propaganda"
against him. Backed by donations from the public, he has a full-time team of
volunteers who will join the Dobson campaign in telephone canvassing of all
68,000 party members.

A master of media relations and high-profile campaigning, he has already shown
his ability to score successes against Mr Dobson, painting him as a lapdog of
Downing Street.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              420 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 18, 1999, Thursday

THE QUEEN'S SPEECH: ANIMAL AND GM ACTIVISTS TO BE COVERED BY TERROR LAWS;
 TERRORISM; BILL TO COVER THOSE WHO RUIN GM CROPS

BYLINE: Colin Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words


ENVIRONMENTAL GROUPS and animal rights protesters will be covered for the first
time by new anti-terrorism laws to be introduced by the Home Secretary, Jack
Straw.

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill will replace two existing Acts introduced to
tackle Irish terrorism in the 1970s and will apply for the first time to
"domestic" terrorism.

Government sources said it might include the actions of animal rights extremists
whobomb laboratories in which testing takes place. The legislation could also
cover environmental groups that destroy genetically modified crops and religious
groups responsible for inciting dissidents abroad. As well, the new Act might
outlaw computer hacking used for terrorist ends.

The definition of terrorism is to be widened from using "violence for political
ends" to any threat or use of violent action "for the purpose of advancing a
political, religious or ideological cause".

The Government ordered a review of its anti-terror legislation by Lord Lloyd
because of protests about its impact on individual civil liberties, and fears
that some powers were counterproductive.

The Bill will abolish the Home Secretary's power to issue exclusion orders
against alleged terrorists in Northern Ireland from travelling to mainland
Britain. The search for a peaceful settlement in Northern Ireland has led to a
change of focus for MI5 and MI6, with the intelligence agencies now closely
watching animal rights activists and international terrorists who have been
using London as a base for their activities. Acting on Lord Lloyd of Berwick's
recommendations, the Bill will increase the powers of the police and the courts
to seize assets used by terrorists in a drive to stop groups from fund-raising
in Britain for terrorist acts abroad.

The new powers will be based on existing laws to seize assets and profits from
drug smuggling, even if they are laundered through perfectly legal businesses.
Police and immigration officers could also have the power to seize cash in
transit if they believe it is going out of the country for terrorist purposes.
Ministers believe that support for widows and orphans, or prisoners' welfare,
can be secretly diverted to buy arms or fund other terrorist operations. Britain
has been criticised by foreign governments for harbouring terrorist groups,
particularly religious fundamentalists operating in the Middle East. The new Act
will give the Government greater powers to close down their fund-raising
operations and jail or fine those involved.

The broad nature of the new powers, however, has already caused protests from
civil rights groups.

The Home Secretary is also planning a separate Bill to allow telephone tapping
powers to be extended to electronic messages such as pagers and encrypted
messages. The Regulation of Investigatory Powers Bill updates the law to keep
pace with electronic messaging since the introduction of the Interception of
Communications Act in 1985. It would allow the authorities access to encrypted
data, including e -mails sent through Internet service providers for the first
time.

Colin Brown

Chief Political Correspondent

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              421 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 19, 1999, Friday

PARLIAMENT: CITY CENTRE TOLLS NOT COMPULSORY, INSISTS PRESCOTT;
  TRANSPORT

BYLINE: Sarah Schaefer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 530 words


JOHN PRESCOTT was accused of a "climbdown" over traffic congestion charges
yesterday after he said it was up to local authorities to introduce the
controversial levy.

The Deputy Prime Minister came under attack from the Tories after he said that
the charges would not be "intro-duced overnight" and "only on balance".

John Redwood, the Torytransport spokesman, said the levy amounted to a "war on
the motorists, already unfairly burdened" by the Government.

Mr Prescott insisted no local authorities would be forced to charge drivers for
entering town and city centres. He said: "Carrying on as before would be the
most anti-motorist policy of all. All I'm doing is improving the choice for the
motorist. I can't force local authorities, I have no intention of doing so."

Speaking during resumed debate on the Queen's Speech, he stressed that any money
raised from congestion taxes would be reinvested in public transport. Under the
plans, part of the Transport Bill unveiled in the Queen's Speech, councils would
also be allowed to introduce workplace parking fees. Mr Prescott said everyone,
including business leaders, recognised that the economic and environmental
damage caused by congestion was unacceptable.

But Mr Redwood said: "The answer to congestion is more capacity - we need more
capacity on public transport as well as maximising the use of existing main
roads and improving some of them. We all know taxing the motorist off the road
does not work."

During the debate, Labour backbenchers also fired the first warning shots of a
forthcoming rebellion over plans to part-privatise the national air traffic
services (Nats). Gavin Strang, a former transport minister, warned that the
sell-off would be a "great mistake". Britain was a "world leader" on air traffic
control, with an excellent record of investment, he said. "I have no doubt that
there are many Labour MPs who are still trying to persuade ministers not to go
down the road of the privatisation of Britain's air traffic control." With the
sums available to the Treasury, the Government easily could justify improving on
past investment rather than opting for a sell-off, he said.

"The British public will not believe that the privatisation of Nats is being put
forward to enhance safety. The airline pilots are against it," he said.

The Government has already been warned it would face "the mother of all
rebellions" over the contentious proposals, particularly in the wake of the
Paddington rail crash.

Dr Strang claimed the proposed privatisation was also a potential threat to
national security. "If terrorists attack an aircraft above Britain or there is
an attack by foreign jets, the security services have to be in a position to
seize control of the air traffic control system. I do not think that there is
any question that the reason why other countries, including the US, have not
privatised their air traffic control systems is for reasons of national
security."

Mr Prescott said the Government would "never compromise" on safety. "These
measures will help enhance one of the most robust systems of aviation safety
regulation in the world," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              422 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          November 20, 1999, Saturday

HOW CAN WE FORGIVE THEM?;
 FAMILIES OF PUB BOMB VICTIMS ANGRY AT BISHOP'S 25TH ANNIVERSARY RECONCILIATION
CALL

BYLINE: Boris Worrall Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 992 words


A bishop's call for the IRA killers behind the Birmingham pub bombings to be
forgiven was greeted with anger last night.

Bishop Peter Hall, who was the rector of St Martin's in the Bull Ring at the
time of the atrocity, will ask for forgiveness in a memorial service to mark the
25th anniversary of the outrage tomorrow.

Last night relatives of some of the 21 killed by the explosions at two city
centre pubs on November 21, 1974, said they could never forgive the unknown
murderers.

The bishop, who has now retired and moved back to Birmingham after spending
several years as Bishop of Woolwich in London, recalled his own horror at the
bombings. And he said he would urge the 50 relatives of the victims who will
gather at St Philip's Cathedral to forgive the "shadowy figures" who killed
their loved ones.

"Forgiveness is a very important part of the healing process, more so than time,
but it can be very hard when you don't know exactly who to forgive," said Bishop
Hall.

"To forgive such shadowy figures is very difficult. But forgiveness helps
release us from the terrible burning sense of loss and hatred for those who have
done it."

But Mr Paul Hambleton, aged 42, from Sutton Coldfield, whose 18-year-old sister,
Maxine, died in the bombing, said: "I will never forgive them and would not
forgive them even if I knew who they were. They are quite simply killers and
murderers."

Mr Hambleton, who will attend the service, said it was disgraceful that the IRA
had not apologised, but said even if it did it would make no difference to him.

"What they did was unforgivable. You cannot go around blowing up innocent people
and then expect forgiveness. I don't care about time as a healer, it will never
heal for me."

Another man who lost a close relative in the bombing and asked not to be named,
said: "I could never forgive them for what they did, no matter how long. What
they did was so wrong and I just cannot accept the idea of forgiveness and I
will never be able to."

The service is exactly 25 years to the day that terrorists left 21 dead and 167
injured when bombs exploded at the Mulberry Bush and Tavern in the Town pubs -
the worst IRA atrocity in mainland Britain.

Although the IRA has described the attack as "regrettable" and has come under
mounting pressure to apologise, it has so far refused to do so.

Those behind the outrage have never been brought to justice despite a three
-year pounds 1.7 million inquiry launched after six men were acquitted at the
Appeal Court in 1991 of carrying out the murders.

The Birmingham Six, wrongly convicted in 1975, are still awaiting a compensation
settlement from the Home Office, although they have been given interim payments
of about pounds 200,000 each.

Sinn Fein, the political wing of the IRA, was asked for a comment by The Post
but was unable to provide a spokesman yesterday.

Last night a spokesman for West Midlands Police said although the file on the
bombings was still open it was no longer "active", although police would
investigate any new evidence.

Several hundred people will pack into St Philip's Cathedral along with members
of the public from 4pm tomorrow to hear an hour-long service including readings,
sermons and hymns.

Bishop Hall, who will also be joined by Alderman James Eames, the Lord Mayor of
Birmingham in 1974, said he could still recall the horror of the day the bombs
exploded.

"There are several things which stick in my mind. Firstly the animosity to the
Irish community here, despite the fact many of the victims were Irish.

"When the arrests were made I also felt immense relief, although of course my
trust that they had got the right people was quickly dispelled.

"Finally I remember the great sense of fear that prevailed. People, and
particularly publicans, felt this was the start of a major campaign and they
could be next."

The bishop said he would also be talking about the hatred and violence of the
times in which Jesus lived and the fact that Christ himself was ultimately a
victim of it.

"The service is vitally important because in the rush of life people and events
can be forgotten and people can be left bitter. Recognising this terrible event
took place is also part of the healing process," he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Healing process: Bishop Peter Hall (left) wants forgiveness for the
killers of Maxine Hambleton, but her brother Peter (far right) has rejected the
suggestion.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              423 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 20, 1999, Saturday

ROW ON FORGIVE BOMBERS APPEAL;
 BISHOP'S CALL SPARKS OUTRAGE

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 356 words


A BISHOP is to call for the IRA killers behind the Birmingham pub bombings to be
forgiven at this weekend's memorial service to mark the 25th anniversary of the
outrage.

But the plea by Bishop Peter Hall, who was the rector of St Martin's in the Bull
Ring at the time of the atrocity, was greeted with anger today.

Relatives of some of the 21 killed by the explosions at two city centre pubs on
November 21, 1974, said they could never forgive the unknown murderers.

The bishop has now retired and moved back to Birmingham after spending several
years as Bishop of Woolwich in London.

He will help lead a service at St Philip's Cathedral tomorrow when there will be
Bible readings and hymns. Several hundred people are expected.

He said he would urge the 50 relatives of the victims who will gather tomorrow
to forgive the "shadowy figures" who killed their loved ones.

"Forgiveness is an important part of the healing process," said Bishop Hall.

"To forgive such shadowy figures is difficult. But forgiveness helps release us
from the terrible burning sense of loss and hatred for those who have done it."

But Mr Paul Hambleton, aged 42, from Sutton Coldfield, whose 18-year-old sister,
Maxine, died in the bombing, said: "I will never forgive them and would not
forgive them even if I knew who they were. They are quite simply killers and
murderers."

The service is exactly 25 years to the day that terrorists left 21 dead and 167
injured when bombs exploded at the Mulberry Bush and Tavern in the Town pubs -
the worst IRA atrocity in mainland Britain.

Although the IRA has described the attack as "regrettable" and has come under
mounting pressure to apologise, it has so far refused to do so.

Those behind the outrage have never been brought to justice despite a three
-year pounds 1.7 million inquiry launched after six men were acquitted at the
Appeal Court in 1991 of carrying out the murders.

The Birmingham Six, wrongly convicted in 1975, are still awaiting a compensation
settlement from the Home Office, although they have been given interim payments
of about pounds 200,000 each.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FORGIVE THE BOMBERS CALL: Bishop Peter Hall, former rector of St;
Martin's in the Bull Ring at the time of the attacks FLASHBACK: Aftermath of the
bombing at the Mulberry Bush pub

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              424 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 21, 1999, Sunday

SEX BEAST STRIKES AGAIN;
 11-YEAR-OLD IS NEW VICTIM OF ATTACKER WITH IRISH ACCENT; POLICE HUNT FOR SICKO
IS NOW BIGGEST IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jason Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 790 words


AN Irish sex beast who has sparked Britain's biggest manhunt has struck two more
times - and one of his victims is aged just 11.

The pervert attacked the girl, threatened her with a knife and assaulted her as
she walked home in Hitchin, Hertfordshire, in the middle of the afternoon.

Just 10 days ago he attacked a teenager and threatened her with a knife before
attempting to assault her around 5am in Stopsley, Bedfordshire.

Police are sure the attacker is the same man who has been terrorising the
English town of Luton, north of London, for well over a year.

He has struck 10 times. While police have an excellent description, he has so
far slipped the net.

Now police from two counties have joined forces in a desperate bid to snare the
sicko.

His latest attack was the first to be carried out across the county line in
Hertfordshire.

Cops there have now signed up to Operation Cirencester, the codename for the
huge investigation.

It is the biggest active manhunt in the UK - and today Sunday People appeals
again for your help in aiding the police to track this beast down.

Det Supt David Tomlinson, who is heading the investigation, told Sunday People:
"The two forces have already been working together to investigate this offence.

"But it is now seen as prudent to pool intelligence and information."

He said that someone, somewhere in Ireland must know who the man is and appealed
for readers who might have any information to contact the Luton hotline.

Two weeks ago we revealed how the man talks with his terrified prey as he
assaults them.

One of his victims who lives in Luton is from Northern Ireland, and told
detectives she is convinced the man is from the north.

Other victims have heard him speak slowly in a manner that sounds like he is
trying to mimic a Luton accent.

On every horrific occasion he grabs his victims and threatens them with a knife.

He then carries out what police will only call 'a serious indecent assault'
before making off.

Sickeningly, he makes lurid comments to his petrified victims as he carries out
his attacks.

Detectives have tasked experts with building up a psychological profile of the
man, who chillingly shows no fear of capture by never trying to hide his face.

They know they are dealing with a deranged sex beast who strikes at random and
seems to care little about being seen.

It is highly likely that he lives in or around Luton, Bedfordshire, and there is
little doubt that he comes from Ireland.

The man is between 5ft 6ins and 5ft 10ins in height, aged between 18 and 30, of
slim or skinny build and has fair or light brown hair.

He has stubble or a goatee beard, pock-marked skin and is usually casually
dressed.

On occasions he has worn jeans and a fleece jacket, but he always wears some
form of head gear, particularly a red baseball cap with a yellow emblem or logo
of some kind on the front.

He has also been seen wearing a Levi's leather belt.

Luton police have warned all women in the town not to walk in secluded areas
while this man remains at large.

His reign of terror began in April last year with a brutal assault on an 18
-year-old in Luton.

All was then quiet until May this year when he attacked a 21-year-old and a 19
-year-old on separate days.

He then attacked a 30-year-old woman at a subway in June at 9.55am. Two months
later a 21-year-old became his next victim.

In September he grabbed a 24-year-old postwoman as she did her rounds.

And on September 30 at 4pm he assaulted a helpless 14-year-old girl at the
town's People's Park.

On Tuesday the sicko went to work again with a 5.30am assault on an 18- year
-old.

The next day, November 3, two men came forward who may have witnessed that
attack.

But police are still desperate for more information and hope that the
breakthrough may come with the help of someone in Ireland.

The attack on the 11-year-old happened on October 15, and the 18-year- old on
November 10.

Luckily she was able to fight him off and run for her life before calling
police.

Det Supt Tomlinson said: "It is feasible that this is someone who has strong
links with Luton.

"These is a long gap between his first attack in April 1998 and May 1999 and we
want to know if anyone can help tell us where he might have been.

"I am quite convinced that somebody, somewhere will have a good deal of disquiet
about him."

"I hate to say it, but if he returned to Ireland the likelihood is that he will
attack there too."

If you think you might have any information on this sex beast, no matter how
insignificant you may think it is, please call the Luton police hotline in
confidence immediately on 01582 394248.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRESH APPEAL: Detective Superintendent David Tomlinson with e- fits of
the suspected sex atttacker; CLOSE-UP: E-fit of the suspect

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              425 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           November 21, 1999, Sunday

DISSIDENTS OUT TO KILL YOU - TOP TARGETS TOLD;
 FEARS OF MURDERS BY PEACE PACT WRECKERS

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 594 words


BRITAIN'S top public figures including Northern Ireland Secretary Peter
Mandelson have been put on red alert against the threat of assassination by an
IRA splinter group.

Security chiefs have warned that they are now prime targets as Ulster nudges
towards peace.

The threat comes from the 100-strong Real IRA responsible for the Omagh bomb
which killed 29 people in August last year.

They are now expected to break their ceasefire in a bid to wreck the deal
between Ulster Unionists and Sinn Fein cobbled together by U.S peacebroker
George Mitchell.

The Sunday People has obtained a sensational top secret warning letter to the
targets who have been put on the terrorist hit list.

It comes from the Home Office's Terrorism Protection Unit charged with the
safety of senior politicians, businessmen, and top police and army officers and
was sent last week.

"Public figures are likely to be a priority target for republican dissidants,"
it says. "A close quarter shooting, or an explosive device attached under a car,
are possible methods of attack.

"Irish republican dissident terrorists remain opposed to the peace process and
there is concern that as the Mitchell Review nears its conclusion, they may
resume a campaign of violence."

The Real IRA have so far not launched any atrocities on the mainland but MI5 are
convinced they are about to do so.

The Sunday People has learned that they have already sent a death squad of four
men and one women to London based at a secret safe house.

From there they will launch a campaign of murder and mayhem the moment they are
given the go-ahead by their terror bosses in Dublin.

"These people hate the Good Friday Agreement and they want to bomb it out of the
water," said a top Republican source. "And they will now kill anyone they can."

The Home Office letter - marked 'confidential - personal' - also warns against
long range attacks.

"For example other known republican terrorist methods, such as postal bombs or
methods not previously encountered."

Special Branch detectives have also been visiting others they think most at risk
to warn them how to be on their guard.

And potential victims have been supplied with a classified video entitled No
Soft Target, advising on how to protect themselves.

Former Lords leader Viscount Robert Cranborne has already had a personal
security assessment.

And security has been stepped up around Premier Tony Blair and former Prime
Ministers Margaret Thatcher, John Major and Ted Heath.

Ex-Northern Ireland Secretaries Douglas Hurd and Patrick Mayhew have been given
extra protection.

And so have Andrew Hunter, the outspoken chairman of the Conservative Northern
Ireland backbench committee, and Tory chairman Michael Ancram, a former Ulster
minister.

Former Liberal Democrat leader Paddy Ashdown is under threat because he served
as a marine in Ulster as are Defence chief Sir Charles Guthrie and Metropolitian
Police Commissioner Sir Paul Condon.

The Real IRA are totally opposed to any peace agreement and MI5 always expected
them to return to violence the moment a deal was near.

Senator Mitchell has left Ulster for good hoping he has put in place the
blueprint for a lasting peace.

The plan thrashed out between Unionist leader David Trimble and Sinn Fein boss
Gerry Adams is for the IRA to begin decommissioning the same day the new
Northern Ireland executive is set up next month.

And if rebel Unionists don't veto the deal the first IRA weapons would begin to
be scrapped in January.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: the protection unit's letter; TARGET: Margaret Thatcher;;
TARGET: Tony Blair; TARGET: Peter Mandelson; TARGET: Patrick Mayhew

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              426 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 22, 1999, Monday

PUB BOMB HORROR RECALLED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 237 words


MORE than 250 people filled Birmingham Cathedral yesterday to remember the
victims of one of the worst terrorist atrocities carried out in Great Britain.

Among them were at least 50 survivors and family members of those killed when
bombs exploded in two city- centre pubs 25 years ago.

The attacks, just minutes apart, left 21 people dead and scores more injured.

Jeanette Ashworth, 38, was just 17 when the blast ripped through the Tavern in
the Town in New Street, as she chatted happily with friends.

"It may be 25 years ago but the memories are as clear as yesterday - it is
something we can never forget," she said.

She escaped virtually unscathed from what remained of the pub thanks largely to
a last-minute decision by a friend to move from the front area where much of the
damage was caused.

Twenty-seven candles were lit for the dead during the ceremony at St Philip's
Cathedral.

Preacher Bishop Peter Hall was rector of St Martin's in the Bull Ring, a short
distance from Tavern in the Town and the other pub involved, The Mulberry Bush.

The service was disrupted slightly when one survivor - 50-year-old Nicola Lee
from Erdington, Birmingham - stormed out.

She said she had been angered by the tone of the bishop's address, with not
enough emphasis on the victims.

Other survivors also said there was too much said in the sermon about the
perpetrators of the atrocity.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLASHBACK: Mulberry blast

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              427 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 22, 1999

Rebirth of bombed city centre was reborn;
Boulevards, bold new buildings and an pounds 80m M&S rejuvenate Manchester area
blown up by IRA

BYLINE: Peter Hetherington Regional Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 639 words


Peter Hetherington Regional Affairs Correspondent

As an exercise in post-60s reconstruction, it is probably second to none, with
new boulevards and parks, traffic-free squares and bus-only streets. Bold new
buildings - stone and steel, with plenty of reinforced glass - replace many of
the brutal concrete structures which disfigured central Manchester.

With barely a fanfare, a rebuilt centre gradually emerged yesterday, three years
after an IRA bomb ripped through the central shopping district, flattening
buildings and displacing almost 700 businesses.

Symbolically, a low-pollution bus was the first vehicle to travel through a re
-designed Corporation Street where the 3,300lb device - the largest detonated in
Britain since the second world war - was placed on a lorry beside a pedestrian
bridge between Marks & Spencer and the Arndale shopping centre.

In two days' time, the rest of the city centre will re-open with a musical
parade, featuring acrobats and fireworks, down the half-mile from the town hall
in Albert Square to the new Exchange Square, once a busy itersection.

Then Sam Hughes, aged three, who captured the horror of the bombing when he was
photographed as a seven month baby being carried bleeding from the wreckage,
will officially open the new, pounds 80m Marks & Spencer store. He was cut by
flying glass, and needed stitches in a hand and fingers, but suffered no lasting
injuries. 'We thought hard about doing it, but decided . . . the store opening
was a good, positive thing for Manchester,' said his mother, Lisa, who also
suffered cuts.

Rebuilding Manchester has so far cost pounds 550m, with business providing the
bulk of the cash following an initial injection of pounds 84m from the
government, the EU, and the millennium fund. But by early next century the bill
could easily top pounds 1bn, with big retailers, leisure companies, developers
and house builders queuing up to invest in a city which has reinvented itself -
and, significantly, turned the tide against big out of town shopping centres.

'Manchester is showing that the focus is now on city centres,' says Mark Teale,
head of retail research for analysts SB Hillier Parker. 'It is now easily the
country's most important shopping centre outside of London. While Birmingham has
some big developments taking place (notably demolition of the Bull Ring), its
store provision is very poor.'

After the bombing, on June 15, 1996, Manchester city council realised it had to
work quickly to rebuild a half square mile central core because a big new out of
town shopping complex, the Trafford centre, was emerging eight miles away.

The council set up a special company with the private sector, Manchester
Millennium Ltd, and quickly organised an international design competition - won
by a consortium led by the London-based planning consultants, EDAW. Within four
months, a blueprint had been prepared.

Alison Nimmo, the company's project director, said: 'The city was looking into
an abyss. The bomb exploded in an area which was not the prettiest part of
Manchester so we decided to create opportunity out of adversity. Very early on
Marks & Spencer gave a commitment to build what is now its biggest store. You
can do a lot on the back of that.'

At the height of rebuilding, 6,500 construction workers were employed, and 1,100
new jobs will soon have been created in new stores and leisure complexes. To
reduce car use, a free city centre bus service will be introduced this week.

House and flat building is booming. With 6,000 central flats and another 4,000
in the pipeline the city centre population is rising fast. Early next year , the
council will unveil plans for schools and health centres. The council leader,
Richard Lease, says rebuilding has 'unleashed a wave of investment'.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              428 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 23, 1999, Tuesday

BRITAIN ON ALERT;
 NEW THREAT FROM REBEL TERRORISTS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 450 words


BRITAIN has been put on its highest terrorist alert since last year's Omagh
bombing amid fears that dissident republicans are plotting to wreck the Ulster
peace process.

Intelligence sources suggest that a splinter group could be planning a major
attack in the run-up to Christmas and the millennium.

Police forces across the country have been placed on a high state of alert. Up
to 30 other organisations and major companies have also warned about the threat.

Potential individual targets, including senior military and political figures,
have been alerted.

Be Vigilant

A security source said: "There are very credible grounds on which this increased
concern is based.

"We think it would be prudent to view a range of dangers from a variety of
terrorist methods."

The public is being warned to be vigilant and to report to the police
immediately any suspicious phone calls or threats.

Security forces fear that terrorists could resort to letter bombs, car bombs or
attacks on high-profile figures.

Intelligence information independently gatered by the Royal Ulster Constabulary
and the Irish Republic's Garda Siochana police force has indicated that maverick
republican paramilitaries were plotting new campaigns on both sides of the Irish
Sea.

The number of activists involved is unlikely to add up to more than a handful.

A security sources in Dublin said: "It has always been recognised that some
effort would be made to destabilise the peace process at some time.

"No-one in Britain and Ireland can afford to let their guard drop.

"It only needs a few determined terrorists to launch a foolhardy attack."

A senior West Midlands Police spokesman today declined to say whether the force
was on heightened alert.

But he said: "We constantly review security in order to protect the people of
the West Midlands.

"Whilst there is no specific advice we would wish to give at this time, sadly
there is always the potential that an individual or group may draw attention to
their cause."

Police forces in Ulster, mainland Britain and Eire are liaising closely because
of the new fears.

Conspiracy

Irish experts believe the threat is posed by a conspiracy involving the
Continuity IRA, the only paramilitary organisation not to have declared a
ceasefire; rebel members of the Real IRA, the group behind the Omagh bombing;
and the Irish National Liberation Army.

But recent police moves on the southern side of the Irish border may have
blunted the prospects of immediate attacks.

Over the past few months, Irish police have arrested hardline republican
suspects and made a number of significant arms finds.

The Mail Says: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              429 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 23, 1999

UK on republican terror alert

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins and John Mullin

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 703 words


Nick Hopkins and John Mullin

Britain has been put on its highest state of terrorist alert since before the
Omagh bomb last year because of a 'credible and real threat' posed by dissident
republicans intent on destroying the peace process, police sources said
yesterday.

Although the timing of the warning could not be worse, senior detectives believe
there are 'genuine concerns for public safety' following comprehensive
intelligence operations in Ireland and the UK and risk assessments by MI5.

With Christmas and millennium festivities fast approaching, the fear is that the
dissidents are planning an attack which would wreck the delicate ceasefire. In a
development which confirmed police concerns, Garda sources said last night that
the army council of the Real IRA, the splinter group behind the Omagh atrocity
which killed 28 people last year, had met at the weekend to discuss the best
strategy for derailing the peace process.

It is believed the council's favoured option was a terrorist attack in Britain.

Between 25 and 30 big com panies and public utilities in Britain have been
briefed about the threat, and security has been increased around the City and
Dockland areas of London.

'We think it would be prudent to view a range of dangers from a variety of
terrorist methods,' the police source said. 'We have briefed a number of
businesses and commercial interests.'

Without going into sensitive operational details, the source added: 'There are
very credible grounds on which the increased concern is based.'

The source was sceptical about reports in a Sunday newspaper that members of a
republican 'active service unit' were already in place in London and Manchester,
but added: 'It could very well be that members of republican dissident groups
could be here on the mainland already.'

The police have raised the risk assessment level to the second highest possible.
The top level is reserved for intelligence of an imminent terrorist attack or
for involvement in a prolonged bombing campaign.

'The message to the public is prudent awareness and alert ness,' said the
source. 'Any suspicious telephone calls or threats should be brought promptly to
the attention of the police.'

One of the problems faced by the police is that the republican dissidents have
not revealed a system of coded warnings that would help to distinguish genuine
threats. The warning received before the Omagh bomb was 'recklessly misleading,'
said the source.

The threat from the dissidents covers the full span of terrorist activity, the
source added, from postal and under-car devices to personal attacks on high
profile MPs. The police believe the dissidents have a range of weaponry and
attack methods at their disposal.

The source said the terrorists had the kind of engineering and logistics that
have led to major attacks in Britain before.

The home office terrorism and protection unit has warned VIPs and politicians
who might be vulnerable to be extra careful, though it is understood the unit
was not working to a specific hit-list drawn up by dissidents, relying instead
on informed guess work.

Police believe there has been a drawing together of dissidents since the spring
which has provided them with a pool of more than 100 suspects. The group
consists of republican hardliners from South Armagh and Dundalk, members of the
Real IRA, disaffected elements of the Provisional IRA, Continuity IRA and the
INLA - the Irish National Liberation Army.

The police do not think the new threat is being posed by IRA prisoners released
from the Maze, but by new recruits helped by a hard core that may have been
involved in planning previous atrocities.

Yesterday's warning is bound to have concerned the Northern Ireland office,
which does not want to rock the political boat unnecessarily at such a delicate
stage. On Saturday David Trimble, the leader of the Ulster Unionists, is to ask
the 860-strong Ulster Union council to back the deal which switches policy away
from demanding a start to an IRA weapons handover before Sinn Fein can take up
its two ministerial places in the Northern Ireland's first-ever inclusive
government. Background, page 7


LOAD-DATE: November 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              430 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               November 24, 1999

Dome is prime target for rogue IRA bombers

BYLINE: Ian Bruce Geopolitics Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 474 words


LONDON'S Millennium Dome has been identified as a prime target for terrorist
attack on Hogmanay in the breakaway Continuity IRA's quest for the ultimate
mainland "spectacular" aimed at derailing the Northern Ireland peace process.

Security services and police are searching for at least two active-service units
believed to be operating in England and awaiting delivery of explosives to carry
out an attack in full view of the world's media.

Intelligence sources in Ulster say the breakaway IRA may have up to 100 members,
including between eight and 12 sleepers in Manchester, London, and Liverpool.
The Garda has made significant arms finds in recent months, including an
underground firing range in Dublin, and a powerful home-made bomb destined for a
ferry to the UK.

They have also arrested more than 20 suspected members of the unholy alliance of
dissident terrorists, the youngest only 14.

The intercepted "Co-op mix" explosive packed inside a truck was similar to the
device which devastated London's Docklands in the Provisional IRA's last
mainland assault. The bomb was made of agricultural fertiliser laced with
washing-up liquid and petrol to transform it into instant napalm.

Upwards of 30 British organisations, companies, and individuals were warned
yesterday by Scotland Yard to be on alert as the festive season approaches. A
Dublin security source said last night: "No-one in Britain or Ireland can afford
to let their guard drop.

"It needs only a few determined terrorists to launch a foolhardy but potentially
horrendous attack. All our efforts will be directed towards heading off that
distinct possibility. The prospect of a strike has not gone away."

The local warning follows a worldwide alert issued by the FBI in October that a
number of militant organisations were believed to be planning attacks to
coincide with millennium celebrations and their attendant media coverage.

Intelligence agencies think the Millennium Dome and Wheel will be prime
candidates for a bombing outrage and a high percentage of Britain's security
apparatus is focused on preventing such a high-value publicity coup.

The other key area of concern for a Millennium bombing attack is Israel, which
expects upwards of two million visitors to Nazareth, Bethlehem, and Jerusalem. A
spokesman for the Israeli Embassy said: "With the Middle East peace negotiations
at a delicate stage, our security forces are at full stretch watching the usual
suspects from Hamas, Abu Jihad, and other Islamic terrorist groups.

"The real problem is that, if trouble comes, it is more likely to emanate from
religious lunatics among the many visitors to our country. There are groups
predicting the end of the world, fundamentalists from the United States and
elsewhere who might try to make that a self-fulfiling prophecy."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              431 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          November 24, 1999, Wednesday

ULSTER: IRISH TERROR ALERT TIGHTENS SECURITY AT THE DOME

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 367 words


EXTRA SECURITY has been installed at the Millennium Dome in response to warnings
from Scotland Yard and MI5 that the multi-million-pound project is among the
most likely targets for a terrorist attack by dissident Irish republicans.

The Metropolitan Police warned yesterday that there were concerns about a
possible bombing campaign across Britain in the run-up to Christmas. A
nationwide security alert has been issued in response to intelligence from
anti-terrorist officers and MI5.

Extra police patrols and highly visible security measures have been put in place
in sensitive areas such as the City of London, Docklands and Westminster. Cities
that have suffered terrorist attacks in the past, such as Manchester, have also
been put on alert. And individual targets, including senior military and
political figures, have been warned of the threat of assassination.

The Dome, near Greenwich, south-east London, which will host a celebrity party
on New Year's Eve, is thought to be a prestigious target for terrorists.

A police source said yesterday: "Historically Irish republican groups always hit
unusual targets. We assess what are the key locations. There are significant
security measures in place at the Dome."

Earlier in the day Scotland Yard issued this statement: "There is a genuine and
credible concern about the increased threat of violence not only in Ireland but
also on the British mainland from breakaway renegade groups who are opposed to
the Irish peace process.

"Any suspicious telephone calls or threats should be brought to the attention of
the police immediately, and businesses should ensure their CCTV systems are
operating properly."

The threat assessment was made by MI5, which has stressed that the decision to
increase the level of security was based on general intelligence about dissident
groups rather than information on specific units or operations in Britain.

Posters are to be released soon, urging people to be on their guard for
potential terrorist threats.

Security reviews have indicated that the threat from groups opposed to the peace
process is at its highest since last year's Omagh bombing, which killed 29
people.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              432 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 24, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

Festive terror attacks fear

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 333 words


   THE region's police forces remained tight-lipped amid fears Republican
dissidents were plotting a festive bombing campaign in Britain.

Security reviews indicated that the threat from groups opposed to the peace
process was at its highest since last year's Omagh atrocity in which 29 people
died.

The news led Scotland Yard to issue a national terrorist alert. Individual
targets and political figures have also been alerted about the threat of
assassination.

A spokeswoman said: "There is a genuine and credible concern about the threat of
violence not only in Ireland but also on the British mainland from breakaway
renegade groups who are opposed to the peace process.

"Police continually review security measures and regularly liaise with other
forces and government departments on security matters.

"Any suspicious telephone calls or threats should be brought to the attention of
the police immediately and businesses should ensure their CCTV systems are
operating properly." She confirmed that officers had briefed private companies,
utilities and transport organisations about the threat.

The North-East has already been the target of IRA bombs. In 1994 building worker
Sean McNulty was given a 25-year sentence for three bomb attacks on an Esso oil
terminal in North Shields and one on a gas holder in Dunston, Gateshead. Members
of McNulty's family were also charged but later cleared of any involvement in
the IRA plot.

Yesterday the region's forces refused to comment on the nature of the threat or
any special measures introduced. In identical statements, Northumbria and
Cleveland police, said: "We continually monitor and review counter terrorism
measures.

"Although we are not prepared to comment on individual matters of security the
force has a responsibility to people in the area."

MetroCentre manager, operations, John Bell, said: "As one of the largest out of
town shopping centres in Europe we already have extensive security in place."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              433 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 24, 1999

Cities on alert over Christmas terror threat;
 SECURITY STEPPED UP AFTER WARNINGS

SECTION: News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 509 words


CITIES across Britain were on alert yesterday after "genuine and credible" fears
of a mainland bombing campaign by dissident republicans in the run- up to
Christmas.

Scotland Yard said security reviews indicated that the threat from groups
opposed to the peace process was at its highest since last year's Omagh
atrocity, which killed 29 people.

Extra police patrols and highly-visible security measures have been put in place
in sensitive areas including the City of London, the Docklands area and
Westminster.

Individuals including senior military and political figures have been alerted
about the threat of assassination.

A Scotland Yard spokeswoman said: "There is a genuine and credible concern about
the increased threat of violence not only in Ireland but also on the British
mainland from breakaway renegade groups who are opposed to the Irish peace
process.

"Police continually review security measures and regularly liaise with other
forces and Government departments on security matters.

"Any suspicious telephone calls or threats should be brought to the attention of
the police immediately and businesses should ensure their CCTV systems are
operating properly."

Threats

The threat level is seen as being only one step down from an active bombing
campaign and was brought to light to warn the public and businesses.

Posters are due to be released soon urging people to be on their guard for
potential terrorist threats.

The warnings were reiterated in Manchester as it prepares to reopen a city
centre store three years after it was devastated by a 3,300lb IRA bomb.

Marks and Spencer, which bore the brunt of the June 1996 bomb, will reopen its
doors tomorrow following the reopening of the road last Sunday where the van
containing the bomb was parked.

A Greater Manchester Police spokeswoman said: "There is clearly the potential
for future terrorist attacks, particularly from those opposed to the current
talks."

Recent tension has prompted close liaison between police in Britain and Ion both
sides of the Ulster border.

Intelligence information independently relayed to both the Royal Ulster
Constabulary and the Garda in the Irish Republic earlier this year indicated
that maverick republican paramilitaries were plotting new campaigns on both
sides of the Irish Sea in a determined bid to wreck the peace process.

Centrally involved in the conspiracy, according to Irish security sources, have
been the Continuity IRA, the only paramilitary organisation not to have declared
a ceasefire, rebel members of the Real IRA, the group behind the Omagh bombing
and the Irish National Liberation Army.

A security official in Dublin said yesterday: "It has always been recognised
here, as well as in Belfast and London, that some effort would be made to
destabilise the peace process at some time.

"Just at the moment, with the Good Friday agreement maybe on the verge of being
implemented, and with Christmas looming, the threat is a potent as it ever was,
and any alert is fully justified."


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              434 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 25, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

Marking a giant recovery

SECTION: BRITAIN TONIGHT, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 157 words


   THE world's biggest Marks and Spencer store, built on the ruins of one
devastated by a bomb blast, opened today amid new fears over terrorist threats.

Manchester's new state-of-the-art Marks and Spencer has risen from the ashes of
one wrecked by an IRA bomb in 1996.

As the store celebrates its opening today Greater Manchester Police have once
again been put on bomb alert following reports that IRA splinter groups are
planning renewed attacks on Britain.

Opposed

A police spokeswoman said they were on alert and had urged officers to be more
vigilant.

She said: "There is clearly the potential for future terrorist attacks,
particularly from those opposed to the current peace talks."

The new M, on the corner of Corporation Street, has 450,000 sq ft, with 200,000
sq ft of sales floor. It contains 14 escalators, nine lifts and a travelator,
while the carpet laid is sufficient to cover three football pitches.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              435 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 25, 1999

REBELS 'WILL NOT SCUPPER PEACE PROCESS'

BYLINE: BY SARAH WOMACKPOLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 270 words


TERROR groups will not be allowed to derail the peace process, Peter Mandelson
vowed last night as cities across Britain braced themselves for a possible
pre-Christmas bombing campaign.

The Northern Ireland Secretary said threats of violence by dissident republicans
would not drive out the real prospect of peace that now existed in Ulster.

Extra police patrols and highly-visible security measures have been put in place
in sensitive areas like the City of London, Docklands and Westmin-ster in
response to warnings from Scotland Yard and MI5. Senior military and political
figures, have also been alerted to the threat of assassination.

Mr Mandelson's comments coincided with the official reopening of Manchester city
centre, devastated by a Provisional IRA bomb attack three years ago.

At the same time, the Ulster Freedom Fighters, one of Northern Ireland's
staunchest loyalist terror groups, said they were putting off naming a
go-between to talk to disarmament monitors.

While the UFF's move could prove a stumbling block to the tortuous quest for
peace, it was seen as significant because it is the first time the Protestant
terrorists had mentioned the disarmament process.

The Ulster Unionist Party, whose leader David Trimble will be first minister of
the assembly, said that while the Ulster Freedom Fighters were waiting for the
IRA to make the first move, their statement still offered a ray of hope to the
peace process.Meanwhile, up to 300 clergy in Northern Ire-land met pro-Agreement
parties in Belfast to pledge their support for Mr Trimble and for the peace
process

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 1999 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              436 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 25, 1999

Rebirth of bomb blast city

SECTION: Pg.22

LENGTH: 462 words


Manchester was last night celebrating the reopening of part of the city centre
destroyed by a terrorist bomb three years ago. Exchange Square was being
officially unveiled after a GBP 500 million re-development following the IRA
blast in June 1996 which injured 220 people. Exchange Square forms part of the
city's new Millennium Quarter and is partially funded by the National Lottery's
Millennium Commission and the European Regional Development Fund. Over the last
three and a half years task-force Manchester Millennium Limited has masterminded
the recovery of the city centre. Following recent new threats of a terrorist
campaign in the run to Christmas a spokeswoman for Manchester City Council said
a range of safety measures were in place.

Cliff's delight over hit

Sir Cliff Richard says he is delighted his end of the century charity song The
Millennium Prayer has zoomed straight into number two in the charts, despite
struggling to get radio airplay. The track, which sets the words of The Lord's
Prayer to the tune of Auld Lang Syne, has leap-frogged teen favourites Robbie
Williams and Will Smith to take the number two slot. Earlier this month, it
emerged that many stations - including BBC Radio 2 - thought it unsuitable for
their playlists, which govern the airtime given to songs.

BBC1's baby bonanza

BBC1 will deliver a baby bonanza for the millennium, including one of the most
ambitious TV experiments ever undertaken as cameras track a group of youngsters
from before birth to adulthood, it was announced yesterday. Lord Winston,
acclaimed for his series The Human Body, is to chart progress of the babies,
each of whom will be born in January, in Child Of Our Time. The channel's winter
season also includes a four-part documentary series, Surrogate Babies, while the
world of Au Pairs in charge of tiny children will be examined. BBC1 controller
Peter Salmon said: "It's new life. It's the whole thing about new life in a new
age."

Cut in phone prices

Tesco last night said it was slashing the cost of pre-paid mobile phones, which
would spark a multi -million pound price war in the run up to Christmas.  From
Friday, the price of pre-paid One to One models will be GBP 49.99, a drop of GBP
20, which would give Tesco one of the lowest prices in Britain, it said.

Pensioner's legacy

A thrifty pensioner who nicknamed himself Frugal McDougal has left GBP 700,000
to a charity for the blind. When 93-year-old retired newspaper salesman Robert
Simes, of West Parade, Horsham, West Sussex died earlier this year, everyone he
knew assumed he had left only a modest will. The money has been left to the
Royal Institute for the Blind, which helped Mr Simes through the years of
glaucoma he suffered as a result of having polio as a child.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              437 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 29, 1999, Monday

MONITOR: THE SUNDAY PAPERS COMMENT ON THE VOTE BY THE ULSTER UNIONIST PARTY TO
ENTER GOVERNMENT WITH SINN FEIN;
 ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 580 words


News of the World

The shadow of death is now in retreat - not only from Ulster, but from the
cities and towns of mainland Britain, which, too, bear the scars of tragic loss
over the last 30 years of terrorist anarchy. The politicians, for once and none
too soon, have done their bit. It now falls to the people of Northern Ireland to
do their bit, strive to turn their backs on generations of sectarian hatred and
set out to achieve the golden future they long for.

The Observer

Trimble has shown courage and outstanding leadership. He has put his own career
on the line. His promise to reconvene the Council in February to appraise the
IRA decommissioning process was a political stroke; it simultaneously reassured
his own waverers and put additional pressure on the nationalists to deliver on
decommissioning IRA weapons from the moral high ground of having made the first
jump.

The Sunday Times

After the First World War Churchill wrote his despairing lines about the
imperviousness of Northern Ireland's local sectarian dispute to the great
changes caused around the world by that global conflict: "As the deluge subsides
and the waters fall, we see the dreary steeples of Fermanagh and Tyrone emerging
once again. The integrity of their quarrel is one of the few institutions that
have been left unaltered in the cataclysm which has swept the world." It would
be premature, even 80 years and another world war later, to say the quarrel is
over. But the chances of holding it in a civilised fashion have been enhanced by
Mr Trimble's bravery.

The Sunday Telegraph

In truth, the Unionist jump was made with the help of an extremely large push
from Peter Mandelson, the Northern Ireland secretary, and Tony Blair. Ulster
Unionists have been repeatedly assured that, as democrats, they have nothing to
fear from another risk for peace - even though this one demanded a U-turn in
party policy. Mr Mandelson has repeatedly promised that if there is no IRA
decommissioning, he will take steps to suspend the operation of the Northern
Ireland Assembly executive. But Mr Blair also made emphatic promises to
Unionists before the referendum on the Belfast agreement, including that "those
who use or threaten violence" would be excluded from government. Those promises
melted away. The burden of responsibility now rests with Mandelson. He must make
sure that the threat of IRA violence is not permitted to loom over the decision
making of the new assembly. When the Ulster Unionist Council meets in February,
it should not be asked to jump again.

Sunday Mirror

So what happens now? A genuine cross community government will be established
next week. Then the waiting begins - will the IRA decommission its weapons? Mr
Adams was anxious yesterday to remind us that he has given no promise of
disarmament. But he has heavily implied that if David Trimble moves first to set
up a government, he would reciprocate. An act of bad faith now would be a public
relations disaster. Far better for Mr Adams to exploit the honeymoon period of
the new government and make a decent gesture on arms - but hardliners in the IRA
will do everything to stop him and they may succeed. If they do, then the
Agreement will again enter crisis because the Ulster Unionists may be forced to
withdraw. If that happens we are all back in the mess. Let us hope that the
opportunity given by the new millennium will be seized to create a lasting peace
in Ireland. (Paul Bew)

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              438 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 1, 1999

Britons killed in Yemen gunbattle had been used as human shields

BYLINE: David Pallister

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 688 words


David Pallister

Three Britons and an Australian whose tourist group was taken hostage by Islamic
militants, were killed in a gunfight between the kidnappers and Yemeni soldiers,
an inquest in London was told yesterday.

Three of the four were probably killed by the terrorists, said Detective
Superintendent Duncan Jarrett. He was unable to rule out the possibility that
Margaret Whitehouse, 52, a Hampshire primary school teacher, was killed by
bullets from the Yemeni forces.

The circumstances surrounding the shoot-out last December - including who fired
first - were hotly disputed at the time. Yesterday the Westminster coroner, Paul
Knapman, who recorded a verdict of unlawful killing, also heard contradictory
evidence.

Relatives of the dead and injured among the group of 16 sobbed in court as the
details of the battle were outlined. Mrs Whitehouse's husband, Lawrence, who
leapt onto one of the kidnappers after his wife was hit, said afterwards : 'I
cry every day. It's dreadful to recall it all.'

Mr Jarrett confirmed the terrorist group had been in contact with known
militants in Britain during the kidnapping, but that there was insufficient
evidence for a criminal action against them.

This was a reference to the north London Muslim cleric Abu Hamza, whom the
terrorists had contacted after the kidnapping and whose son and stepson were
later convicted by a Yemeni court of involvement in a bomb plot.

Mr Jarrett suggested that Mrs Whitehouse and Andrew Thirsk, 35, a Briton living
in Sydney, were most likely killed by one of the terror group's leaders, Ahmed
Atif. He is now serving a 20 year sentence.

Mr Jarrett said he had a stronger belief that both Edward Rowe, 60, a Durham
university maths teacher, and Ruth Williamson, 34, an NHS training consultant
from Perth, Western Australia, who lived in Edinburgh, were killed by a
terrorist known to them only as 'grey shirt'.

Iain West, a pathologist who performed post mortems on the victims, said his
investigation had been hampered as all the bodies had been examined by a Yemeni
pathologist, who had removed all the bullets. He was unable to say which side
had killed Mrs Whitehouse, who was shot more than 10 times.

The fatal wound to Mr Thirsk's head came from the front, he said, implying it
had been fired by a soldier.

Det Sgt Kevin O'Shea said the attack occurred when the group set off in five
vehicles from a base in Habban to the capital, Aden. They were intercepted by
the armed hostage-takers and driven to a remote camp, where they asked why they
had been seized.

They were told: 'It was not your fault that your country bombed Iraq', and were
also told that friends of the kidnappers had been imprisoned and were being
tortured.

The tourists were fed and slept before awaking the following day and being
marched to a nearby ravine.

It was then that another vehicle arrived carrying Yemeni officials who had come
to discuss their release.

The officials were told that the tourists would be decapitated unless demands
for the release of the kidnappers' friends were met.

Mr O'Shea said that shortly after the meeting a vehicle containing some
kidnappers left the camp - but returned at speed after the sound of gunfire.

The hostages were then di vided into two groups - one of five people and one of
11 - and made to stand between the kidnappers and approaching Yemeni forces.

In the ensuing battle some of the hostages tried to restrain their kidnappers to
help their friends and relatives, he said.

Mrs Whitehouse, a teacher from Hook, Hampshire, was hit by bullets fired by
Yemeni troops as she tended Mr Thirsk, her injured travelling companion, who was
slumped by her side. Mr Whitehouse then leapt on to one of the kidnappers
standing behind him, crying: 'You've killed my wife. You've killed my wife.'

Mr O'Shea said that Mrs Williamson and Mr Rowe were shot dead by one of the
hostage takers as they, too, stood with their arms in the air in the midst of
the gun battle.

Other hostages who were injured in the battle were shot as they tried to get to
safety.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              439 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          December 1, 1999, Wednesday

SHOULD BRITAIN BE CHARGED WITH WAR CRIMES?;
 'THE MORAL HIGH GROUND CAN BE TREACHEROUS TERRAIN, PARTICULARLY FOR A COUNTRY
THAT HAS ITS OWN MURKY COLONIAL PAST'

BYLINE: David Anderson

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1324 words


THE PROSECUTION of those accused of war crimes under the Nazis, or more recently
in the "ethnic cleansing" of Serbia and Kosovo, has become a moral crusade of
our times. Human rights of war-crime victims are reinforced by international law
and sustained with the support of Western governments, including our own. The
prevailing view is that justice should be brought to bear, and retribution
delivered, upon those who have offended the moral codes, even in war.

But this moral high ground can be treacherous terrain, especially for a country
with its own murky colonial past. We in Britain should tread warily.

A movement is gaining pace in Kenya to bring charges against the British
Government for atrocities committed during the Mau Mau rebellion of the Fifties.
Encouraged by news of war crimes cases in Europe and - nearer to home - the
successful prosecution of some of those responsible for genocidal killings in
Rwanda, Kenya's "Real Mau Mau Freedom Fighters" now hope to mount a case that
will expose the human rights abuses of the British between 1952 and 1958. The
evidence that I have been studying in Kenya and London for the last year
suggests that they have a case.

The Mau Mau emergency is best remembered in Britain for the savage attacks on
European settlers. Machete-wielding Mau Mau gangs slashed their victims to
death, leaving mutilated corpses where they would serve as a warning to others.
But despite the British perception of Mau Mau as a war against Europeans, only
32 white civilians were in fact killed in these attacks. The greater violence
was directed against fellow-Africans.

To combat the Kikuyu Mau Mau gangs, Britain mobilised "Loyalists" from within
the Kikuyu community, creating a Home Guard some 25,000 strong at its peak and
stimulating a civil war of a kind that gave rise to the most vicious acts of
terror and counter-terror.

The campaign against Mau Mau was the dirtiest of Britain's wars of
decolonisation, and there is much historical evidence that might be used to
support claims of human rights abuses. Accusations of excesses and atrocities
were made at the time and some of them publicised by British MPs, including
Barbara Castle, Fenner Brockway and Tom Driberg. There were many reported
instances of beatings, cruelty and torture, but they were generally attributed
to individual officers having "over-stepped the mark". However, research into
the colonial archives is now revealing a darker and more systematic story of
state complicity.

The most damning evidence comes, ironically enough, from the court records of
the prosecutions of Mau Mau fighters. Emergency regulations enforced early in
1953 brought an extension of the range of capital offences. It became a capital
offence to administer or freely participate in taking a Mau Mau oath; to be
known to be a member of Mau Mau gang; to be in possession of explosives, arms or
ammunition; or to consort with people carrying arms or ammunition.

At the same time, new courts were set up to hear Mau Mau cases. The Special
Emergency Assize Courts tried nearly 3,000 Kenyan Africans accused of capital
crimes. The courts were presided over by a single judge who sat without the
benefit of a jury. Most of the judges were not members of the High Court at all,
but were acting judges who had been raised from the ranks of the magistracy.
Between early 1953 and the end of 1956, these hanging judges sent 1,083 men to
the gallows - and this at a time when the British public was contemplating
abolishing the death sentence.

The case papers of some 900 of these capital trials offer little to inspire
confidence in British justice. The rules governing the courts were designed to
speed up the prosecution of cases, but this seriously diminished the rights of
the accused. Committal proceedings were done away with, removing any opportunity
to evaluate the prosecution's case and arrange witnesses for the defence.
Defence counsel could seldom be appointed in advance, never mind briefed. Not
surprisingly, witnesses for the defence only rarely made an appearance in these
trials.

These were also among the last mass trials to take place anywhere under British
jurisdiction. In the largest cases, groups of 50 or more accused sat in the dock
together, holding up numbered boards to identify one from another. In these
circumstances, it was not surprising that judges lost track of the actions of an
individual as the evidence unfolded.

Worse still, the courts allowed the submission of extrajudicial statements by
the accused as evidence for the prosecution. This meant that statements made
during interrogation by a member of the district administration or by a European
police officer, often before formal charges had been laid, could be used in
court. Before the court, the accused invariably asserted that the extrajudicial
statement had been made under duress. Many accused bore the physical scars of
beatings and torture, but the court seldom accepted that such abuse was related
to the statement of guilt. Despite the judgment of the court, the burden of
evidence makes it difficult to escape the conclusion that intimidation was
widely used to extract confessions that would secure conviction, and it is also
difficult to believe that judges would have been unaware of the methods being
used. These were political trials in all but name.

To illustrate the character of this evidence, let me refer to only one case,
though admittedly an unusually revealing one: that of the prosecution of Kikuyu
Loyalist Home Guard for the murder of two Mau Mau suspects at Ruthagathi in
Nyeri District during 1954. The judge in this case found there to have been
systematic use of torture by Home Guard under the charge of European officers,
the running of what he termed a "protection racket" of extortion by Home Guard
commanders against local Mau Mau sympathisers, illegal detention and
interrogation of innocent people by the security forces, forging of the
government record by European officers and an African chief in an effort to
cover up what had happened, and perjury before the court of several members of
the security forces, including European officers.

Despite all of this, the Foreign Office may not be too troubled by the Kenyan
campaigners. Three amnesties were issued during the emergency period, two of
which were intended to exonerate the security forces, to prevent further
prosecutions arising against them. At the time this was sufficient to prevent
cases coming before local courts, but we may wonder whether the same can be
achieved now. Would a Nazi amnesty in the early months of 1945 have prevented
Nuremberg?

It is more significant that the Kenyan government is extremely unlikely to
support the efforts to bring a case before the British or international courts.
Memories of Mau Mau divide Kenyans among themselves, presenting a minefield that
few Kenyan politicians would willingly enter.

Those Kenyans who suffered in the Fifties were not all victims of colonial
oppression; many were victims of brutalities committed by the supporters of Mau
Mau. Among the Loyalists who sided with the colonial regime - even if they did
so reluctantly - there is little sympathy for the idea that Mau Mau fighters
should be compensated. Gachere Wakahangare, who was herself maimed in a Mau Mau
attack on her Loyalist family, still grieves for the two children she saw
butchered before her eyes. The very thought of compensation for the Mau Mau
fighters only rubs salt in her wounds: "Who will compensate us?" she asked, when
I spoke with her earlier this year. "They killed our children. Why? Did we not
suffer?"

For the majority of Kenyans, it is reconciliation, not retribution, that will
best heal the wounds of the Fifties. The British Government may yet be grateful
for that.

The writer teaches history at the School of Oriental & African Studies,
University of London

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Mau Mau soldier imprisoned behind barbed wire. The campaign in; Kenya
in the Fifties was one of the dirtiest of Britain's wars of decolonisation
Hulton Getty

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              440 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                            December 3, 1999, Friday

INNOCENT, UP A GUNPOINT;
 LETHAL ARSENAL AT HOME OF CLEARED MURDER SUSPECT

BYLINE: Alistair Keely And Gary Hopkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 744 words


A man cleared yesterday of an execution-style murder in Birmingham kept a deadly
arsenal of weapons including two submachine guns.

Andrew Poyser's stash of firearms stunned senior detectives who believe the
submachine guns, used by US troops, were smuggled into Britain in pieces and
assembled by an underworld armourer.

Jailing Poyser for six years, Mr Justice Wright, spoke of his horror that such
weapons were available on the streets of Birmingham.

He told the city's Crown Court the guns were intended to strike terror into the
general public and were the "very weapons of terrorist activity".

The haul was discovered at a flat in Aston as detectives investigated the murder
of Mr Daniel Brown, who was shot dead outside Handsworth's Plaza club for
mistakenly standing on someone's foot.

The find also included two semi-automatic pistols, two silencers for the
submachine guns and nearly 50 rounds of ammunition.

The two Ingram submachine guns were capable of firing 20 rounds a second. They
were particularly dangerous as they had been altered so they could only fire on
automatic and could not discharge shots singly.

Poyser (27), of no fixed address, admitted six charges of possessing a
prohibited weapon.

But he and three other men - Richard Williams, Gladstone Johnson and Darren
Phidd - were earlier acquitted of the murder of 20-year-old Mr Brown, who was
shot three times in the chest outside the Plaza on November 30 last year.

Mr Justice Wright told Poyser: "There is great and increasing public concern
about the proliferation of illegal firearms and their use in criminal activity.

"There was Dunblane, Hungerford and now shootings are a regular occurrence on
the streets of our major cities.

"The weapons you were responsible for keeping safe for other acquaintances are
not just shotguns or imitation firearms but fully automatic submachine guns.

"They are weapons capable and intended to strike terror into the public and any
to whom they are produced. They are the very weapons of terrorist activity."

The judge added: "Your intention was to keep them away from the police
investigations you and your associates knew would take place as a result of that
appalling murder. I believe the guns would have been released again on the
streets of the city."

The judge then criticised some of the prosecution's witnesses. He said:
"Probably the reason the jury came to the decision it did was more the result of
some of the civilian witnesses who had a curious approach to morality, to say
nothing of the truth."

Last night, the senior detective in the case said the West Midlands was a safer
place now that Poyser was behind bars.

Det Supt Keith Gardner, of the force's Major Investigations Unit, said: "Anyone
who has these sort of weapons in their possession is clearly extremely dangerous
and seeing him imprisoned was very satisfying."

The jury found Poyser, Williams (33), of Ridgeway, Edgbaston, and Mr Johnson,
aged 32, of no fixed address, not guilty of the murder of Mr Brown, wounding his
brother Nigel with intent and violent disorder.

A fourth defendant, club DJ Darren Phidd, aged 25, of Osborne Road, Handsworth,
previously was acquitted of the same charges at the direction of the judge.

Williams was found guilty by the jury of possessing a firearm with intent and
was jailed for three years. Mr Johnson was cleared of the same charge, also on
the judge's direction.

The court had heard Mr Brown was taken out on a special trip by his brother to
the now defunct Plaza to cheer him up from his depression after he had become
lonely and withdrawn.

But his awkward dancing led him to tread on someone's toes on the dance floor.

Mr Stephen Linehan QC, prosecuting, said he was then dragged outside the club
where he was shot three times in an execution-style killing.

His brother Nigel survived after being shot in the arm.

Mr Linehan said Poyser, who has a previous conviction for possessing a knife,
had stored his weapons at the flat of a girlfriend, Tracey Shepherd, where he
had been staying until his arrest.

Mr David Etherington, for Poyser, said he had been asked to keep the weapons
safe for others but was not prepared to tell the authorities who those people
were.

After the case, a detective said Nigel Brown was suffering from post traumatic
stress syndrome as a result of the shooting and had been unable to give evidence
in court.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Deadly: Det Insp Mike Treble with one of the guns that Andrew; Poyser
(right) had stored at a girlfriend's flat.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              441 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 3, 1999

Plans for new laws to deal with terrorism

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 449 words


THE Government yesterday unveiled plans for sweeping new anti-terror laws which
could be used to target environmental campaigners and religious extremists.

The Prevention of Terrorism Bill, published as Northern Ireland's newly devolved
administration set about the business of governing, will extend anti -terrorism
powers to cover all international and "domestic" terrorism as well as Irish
violence for the first time.

Under a new definition of terrorism, special powers will apply to counter the
use of or threatened use of serious violence against people or property "for the
purpose of advancing a political, religious or ideological cause".

The Bill also allows the Home Secretary to outlaw terrorist organisations and
introduces stronger powers for seizing their assets. It creates a new criminal
offence of inciting terrorist acts abroad from within the UK.

Some provisions specific to Northern Ireland, including the use of "Diplock"
courts which sit without a jury, will continue, but they will have to be renewed
on an annual basis as now.

Home Secretary Jack Straw said the Bill stressed that only the threat of
"serious" violence would trigger the anti-terror powers which include allowing
the police to hold a suspect for longer without charge. It would be for the
courts to decide case by case whether alleged offences fell within the scope of
the Bill, he said.

There was nothing in the Bill which would interfere with the right of peaceful
protest, Mr Straw added. But it would send out a clear message to terrorists of
whatever kind that the Government would not put up with violence.

He said: "It is crucial to have legislation which is both proportionate and
sufficiently flexible to respond to a changing threat, from whatever source or
country it may come."

In addition the Bill shifts the power to allow extended detention of suspects
from the Home Secretary to judges. It scraps powers to ban terrorists from
moving between Great Britain and Northern Ireland.

The Home Secretary refused to be drawn on what groups he would consider
proscribing under the new powers. Once outlawed, it would become an offence to
belong to, raise money for, or wear clothes identifying membership of an
organisation.

Liberal Democrat Shadow Home Secretary Simon Hughes expressed concern over the
breadth of the new definition of terrorism amid fears it could be used to target
animal rights activists, direct-action anti-GMO campaigners or protesters
against road building protests.

He said: "There is real concern that the new definition of terrorism will
inappropriately cover people involved in legitimate political campaigning or
protest."

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              442 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 1999, Friday

THE DEVOLUTION OF ULSTER: LAW WILL TREAT ALL CAMPAIGNERS WHO USE VIOLENCE AS
TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


MILITANT ENVIRONMENTALISTS and religious groups that use or threaten to use
"serious" violence face being treated as terrorists under government proposals
published yesterday.

Extremists operating in Britain who incite others to carry out terrorism abroad
will also be outlawed as part of the sweeping new Terrorism Bill. The Government
wants to extend anti-terrorism powers to cover international and "domestic"
terrorism as well as Irish violence for the first time. The police will be given
greater powers of arrest, detention and the taking and storing of samples,
against anyone classified as a terrorist. Environmental activists and civil
rights campaigners who take part in demonstrations, such as protests against the
live export of animals and genetically modified crops, fear they will be caught
up in the powers.

Jack Straw, the Home Secretary, yesterday attempted to head off criticism by
arguing: "Nothing in this Bill is designed to, or will, interfere with the right
of people to peacefully protest." He refused to comment on which groups,could be
outlawed, but stressed that only the threat of "serious" violence would trigger
the anti -terror powers. It would be for the courts to decide case by case
whether alleged offences fell within the scope of the Bill.

Under the new laws, terrorism is defined as "the use or threat, for the purpose
of advancing a political, religious or ideological cause". It adds it must
include "action which involves serious violence against person or property,
endangers the life of any person, or creates a serious risk to the health or
safety of the public...."

If the Bill becomes law, police will be able to arrest a person if they suspect
he or she is a terrorist. The person may be held initially for 48 hours and up
to a maximum of seven days compared with 36 hours and up to four days for a
suspect detained under normal criminal law. A new criminal offence of inciting
terrorist acts abroad from within the UK is to be created. The criminal
activities include murder, wounding, poisoning and explosion. While there have
been complaints from foreign governments that Britain is being used as a terror
base, there is also concern that the activities of groups trying to overthrow
dictators and despots will also be outlawed.

In addition, the Bill shifts the power to allow extended detention of suspects
from the Home Secretary to judges. There will also be powers for police, Customs
and immigration officers to seize cash from terrorists at borders and allow them
to attempt to obtain money by civil court action.

Leading article,

Review page 3

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Straw: Judges can decide

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              443 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 1999, Friday

LEADING ARTICLE: MR STRAW HAS TAKEN A BLUNDERBUSS TO THE FIGHT AGAINST TERRORISM

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 600 words


JACK STRAW'S new Terrorism Bill is not all bad. Terrorism has indeed changed,
and there is nothing wrong with treating as terrorists animal-liberation
extremists who choose to kill or maim in pursuit of their cause or with granting
wider powers to bring to justice murderous anti-abortion activists or groups
equivalent to Aum Shinrikyo, the cult that launched deadly poison gas into
Tokyo's underground system.

The Metropolitan police were also understandably frustrated by being unable to
use the powers - available under the Prevention of Terrorism Act (PTA), which
the new Bill will replace - to cordon off an area and conduct searches within it
in their hunt for the perpetrator of the London nail-bombings in Brick Lane,
Brixton and Soho in the spring.

In some respects, moreover, the new Bill has modernised and even liberalised the
previous legislation. The police will have to seek judicial authority to
sanction the longer periods of detention - now to be up to seven days before
trial - allowed for suspected terrorists. Under the PTA, the power was,
undesirably, left to the Home Secretary. As a result of this change, the UK will
no longer need its much-criticised derogation from Article V (3) of the European
Convention of Human Rights.

This spells the welcome abolition of a dark corner in the British state's
apparatus of law enforcement, as does ending the infamous ministerial powers to
impose exclusion orders barring Northern Ireland residents from entering Great
Britain.

The definition of terrorism as the use or threat of "serious" violence also
rightly creates a higher threshold than the PTA, which referred only to
"violence". Nevertheless, the fact that the new definition refers to serious
violence against "property" as well as against "persons" has given rise to real
worries among environmental and other groups that the powers available under the
new Act - including the enhanced powers of arrest, asset seizure, stop and
search, and detention - could be used against protesters who constitute no
threat to human life.

It is one thing to categorise as terrorism a bombing that destroys a barn
without casualties, if it might have threatened a human life. But it is quite
another to use the blunderbuss of counter-terrorism powers against, say, those
suspected of destroying fields of GM crops. It is unlikely that Mr Straw would
personally sanction using the enhanced powers to hunt down Lord Melchett and his
Greenpeace colleagues. But a future Home Secretary might. The Bill contains
inadequate protection for protesters who infuriate and obstruct, but do not
endanger, their fellow-citizens.

The second serious worry concerns the new offence of inciting another person to
commit an act of terrorism outside the UK. Though much more tightly drawn than
the Tory Private Member's Bill on the subject before the last general election,
there are real fears that it could turn into a "Mandela clause". By covering
incitement to commit a series of offences - including endangering life by
damaging property - it could, at least in theory, threaten residents of the UK
who are allied to those fighting a just war against a brutal and repressive
regime. True, a prosecution would have to be authorised by the DPP. But, again,
that is not an absolute guarantee against authorities in the future moving
against highly moral dissidents, under commercial or diplomatic pressure from
just such a regime. To be fair to Mr Straw, it will not be easy to redraft these
clauses to preclude misuse. But it is up to Parliament to ensure that he does
so.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              444 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            December 3, 1999, Friday

Why we are fighting in Chechnya

BYLINE: Vladimir Putin

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 1364 words


Vladimir Putin, Prime Minister of the Russian Federation, asks why he should
appease terrorism.

There is probably not a political leader in the world who has not taken an
interest in the events unfolding in Northern Ireland in recent months. In Moscow
we were hoping that Senator Mitchell's efforts would produce a permanent
resolution to a conflict which has plagued Britain and Ireland for the past 30
years. The people of Northern Ireland now appear to have a way forward. The
Russian people, myself included, hope that their political leaders will turn the
dream of a lasting peace into reality.

There are those who would say, given the current intervention by Russian forces
in Chechnya, that there are lessons to be learnt from the Northern Ireland
experience. The analogy could well be drawn that, just as Tony Blair, Senator
Mitchell, and all the other participants in the peace process, have eventually
arrived at the brink of a settlement through negotiation, then so should we talk
to our enemies in Chechnya. But, sadly, Grozny bears a far greater resemblance
to the anarchy and terrorism of Beirut in the 1980s than it does to Belfast in
1999.

Yet recently at the conference of the Organisation for Security and Co-operation
in Europe in Istanbul we saw country after country call on the Russian
Government to negotiate a settlement. I believe in negotiation, especially as
our history has taught us that it is impossible to settle the Chechen question
by military force alone. But with whom and about what should we negotiate?

To ask the Russian Government to negotiate a settlement with these vicious
criminals is tantamount to asking Peter Mandelson and George Mitchell to broker
a peace deal with Manchester's drug barons or crime bosses in London. Such a
notion is unthinkable.

The outbreak of hostilities in Dagestan last summer and the ensuing terrorist
atrocities across other regions of Russia were not an attempt to win Chechen
independence from Russia. It was the pursuit of their own expansionist agenda -
an orchestrated campaign to seize our territories and destabilise the whole
region. We were forced to defend ourselves, defend our people and defend the
territorial integrity of the state.

Now, although the military operations have moved decisively into Chechnya
itself, we still do not intend to solve the problem of the status of this
republic by military force. But before a lasting peace can ensue, we must first
eradicate the international terrorist bases that are being used as the
bridgeheads for aggression in other regions of our country. And peace for me is
not just the "absence of war" but a new chance for the Chechen people to lead a
normal life under a legitimate government, free from terrorist and criminal
intimidation. Tragically, we do not see reliable partners who would be ready or
able to take responsibility for peace and stability in this region. The
inability of the Chechen Government to stop the republic sliding into armed
anarchy - surely the greatest threat to the Chechen people - or to curb the
export of terrorism, finally forced us to act decisively. For that we make no
apology.

Our military action is certainly not aimed at Chechen civilians, or their
Government. Far from it. We are specifically targeting the criminal gangs -
murderers, kidnappers and drug dealers - who launched genocidal attacks on
Russian citizens earlier this year, the very same men who have kept the Chechen
people living in fear and poverty for years. The savage beheading of the
Britons, Darren Hickey, Rudolf Petschi, and Peter Kennedy, at the hands of these
barbaric terrorists, typifies why we had to act and the sort of people we are
having to deal with.

In Chechnya there are schools, hospitals and shops that have not been working
for up to five years. Ordinary people have not been paid wages and pensions
despite the fact that the Federal Government has regularly transferred funds for
these purposes. This is the reality of the appalling situation created by the
very criminal gangs we are seeking to stamp out.

The recent bomb attacks on Moscow apartment complexes have brought home to the
Russian people, in a horrific way, the nature of the regime that ordinary
Chechens have endured for years.

Of course, sadly, the British people have been no strangers to terrorist attack
over the years. The outrage that people felt over atrocities like the bomb
attacks at Birmingham, Guildford, Enniskillen and Warrington is mirrored and
magnified in the Russian people today. Our citizens do not want to live in fear
and mortal danger. They look, naturally, to the Government and security forces
to protect them. Neither the Russian President nor I can or will ignore that
responsibility.

And so we have, reluctantly, had to engage in a military campaign in Chechnya.
In the midst of war, even the most carefully planned military operations
occasionally cause civilian casualties, which are deeply regrettable and which
we take every step to avoid. Nato forces in action in Kosovo were far from
immune to such mistakes.

It is true that the wave of refugees caused by military operations represents a
serious ordeal for thousands of ordinary people, and the crisis has spilled over
into Chechnya's neighbouring republics. Many people left their homes in a hurry,
not fleeing Russian forces but out of fear that guerrilla fighters would seize
civilians caught in the combat zone and use them as a human shield. That is a
very regrettable by-product of our action and we are taking urgent steps to
tackle this problem. The United Nations Senior Commissioner for Refugees, Sadako
Ogata, has recently visited Ingushetia and the liberated regions of Chechnya.
She inspected our extensive relief efforts and confirmed that there is no
"humanitarian disaster" in the Russian-controlled territories where most of the
refugees are staying. No one is pretending that conditions for the refugees are
easy, but we are at least now able to give them a roof and provide them with
food, heat and medical services. Children are once again starting to attend
school, free from the daily terror of existence in a lawless bandit state.

I am pleased to say that more and more refugees are now returning home as we
progressively extend the zone freed from terrorists. Federal troops and
Government representatives have orders to re-establish electricity and gas
supplies in the liberated territories as quickly as possible. However we will
have to rebuild much of the social infrastructure almost from scratch. But
people now feel that a change for the better has finally begun and hope that it
will last.

We believe that thousands of decent Chechen people support our aims. This was
demonstrated in recent events when Chechen people themselves evicted criminals
from their cities and villages and began to arrange a return to normal, peaceful
life together with representatives of the Federal Government.

I would much rather it was not necessary for our forces to be in Chechnya. There
is a pressing domestic political agenda in Russia that demands my full-time
attention. But these are not and cannot be questions of minor importance. To win
a victory over terrorism in Chechnya is vital, just as we must, and will,
triumph over organised crime.

I want for Chechnya what I am determined to deliver to the other citizens of
Russia: prosperity and opportunity. I believe in a programme for government
where economic efficiency goes hand in hand with social justice. I want to see a
Russia where every citizen has a chance to share in the wealth of real economic
reform.

I want to see my own children, and all children in my country, grow up in a
society where they will have infinitely more opportunities than my generation.
Opportunities in terms of rewarding jobs, homes, social benefits and the freedom
to truly develop their full potential. The Russian Government must do all it can
to deliver a better life for all the citizens of the Russian Federation.
Furthermore, we will not only make our new plans clear to our partners in the
West, but try to win their active support for them too.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              445 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 4, 1999

Regeneration is the name of the game;
The interest in penthouses backs up the theory that developers are breathing new
life into our cities, reports Elizabeth Langton

SECTION: Guardian Jobs and Money Pages; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1146 words


London's most famous penthouse resident, Jeffrey Archer, has done little to
undermine the popular view of an apartment on the top floor as the home of
choice for wealthy and slightly sleazy men.

Mr Archer occupies the top floor of a modern high rise building on the Thames
embankment with, in estate agents' lingo, a stunning view of the river and the
Houses of Parliament. Equally stunning views are available outside the capital
where penthouses are undergoing a rebirth.

A home that allows you to look down on your neighbours as well as over rivers
and landmarks is proving attractive to house hunters in city centres around the
country. Even the modest city of York has two penthouses for sale through FPD
Savills.

The word penthouse conjures up visions of spacious, airy up-market homes with
superior price tags to match. True, for the super rich or villains from James
Bond films who can plot to take over the world, there are plenty of ex pensive
homes. The shell of an apartment perched on top of Richard Rogers' latest
masterpiece, the Montevetro building in Battersea, is on the market for a
whacking pounds 4.5m. Interest in city centre living began in Manhattan in the
late 80s, successfully crossed the Atlantic and has ended up as integral to
government housing policy.

As manufacturing and traditional trades that dominated city centres disappeared,
so the developers moved in and converted factories and offices into homes for
urban professionals. The government wants developers to continue to help breathe
new life into Britain's decaying city centres by recycling sites previously used
for another purpose and building homes for all incomes.

Research carried out by property consultants Knight Frank earlier this year
concluded that there is a strong need for residential accommodation in the
centre of all the UK's main cities. Professional single people or couples in the
25-45 age range are the keenest buyers. To meet the demand, the current trend
for converting office buildings into homes will continue, it predicts.

The dictionary definition of a penthouse is a flat or house on the roof of a
tall building. In practice, penthouses can be duplexes occupying the top two
floors, an apartment constructed on top of an existing building, or even several
floors of apartments within a block. The brochures that accompany these homes
concentrate on the lifestyle aspects of living at the top of a building in the
city.

Manchester has been a trendy city for some time and compared to other northern
cities it has a well-established residential sector. The centre had the guts
knocked out of it by an IRA bomb blast in 1996. But last week Mancunians
celebrated the re-awakening of their city.

Along with the gleaming new shopping centres there are homes for wealthy
metropolitans - the Nicholson Estates Century Building development includes what
it claims is the first pounds 1m penthouse in the city.

Greg Cezair, finance director at Nicholson Estates, says those interested in
buying the new homes include celebrities and the cash-rich stars of the football
field who can earn between pounds 20,000 and pounds 30,000 a week. There are
also couples who have a home in the country or suburbs but want a pied a terre.

Century Building is a development of 121 one-, two- and three-bedroom apartments
and penthouses set within adjoining buildings - one 60s and the other a turn of
the century grade II listed.

The million-pound penthouse, a duplex, is now on the market and a second will be
offered for a similar sum shortly. Two others are reserved and a third is on the
market for pounds 395,000. They are attracted by more than just the views, says
Mr Cezair. 'After all, the views from the 8th floor are the same as from the
11th. They're seeking an element of exclusivity. Mostly the buyers are people
who care about their environment and want the specification just right."

So what do you get for your money? Buyers of new penthouses are usually able to
have a greater input into the property's design including choosing materials for
floors, units, kitchens and bathrooms, says Mr Cezair. Limestone and glass
feature prominently.

The lifts are designed so only owners can have access to their floor. Residents
of Century Building can also pay for valet parking. On the whole, buyers intend
to live in the properties they buy. 'In the central London locations there are a
higher number of investment purchasers. In Manchester, more are
owner-occupiers," says Mr Cezair.

David Fenton of Knight Frank says city-centre living is also taking off in
Birmingham, where one of the most ambitious projects, to develop the former
Royal Mail sorting offices, is under way. The Mailbox development sits between
the business district and convention centre and claims to be the largest mixed
-use scheme in Europe. It will include two hotels, leisure, retail and office
facilities, says Mr Fenton.

Crosby Homes has bought the rights to build 140 apartments in all and 72 have
already been sold. While it is usually the case that the higher up a building
you go the more you pay, here the penthouses actually sit on the ground floor of
the devel opment. The 35 top of the range flats have large roof terraces and
cost up to pounds 315,000. There are also two penthouses at Millennium
apartments, the former British Telecom offices at Birmingham's Newhall Street,
available through Knight Frank.

Further north in Nottingham, City Point, also by Crosby Homes, is on the market
through FPD Savills. The development has 21 apartments and seven third -floor
duplex penthouses with balconies and terraces. One is sold, two are reserved.
Others have not yet been released but are around pounds 330,000. It's a new
build on the site of the old General Hospital.

In Leeds, 10 or 12 city centre penthouses are due to come on to the market
within the next six months, says property agent Jonathan Morgan. While the
market for residential homes within the city is still fairly young, Mr Morgan
predicts rapid growth along the lines of Manchester's city centre market.
Morgans has recently reserved a pounds 475,000 penthouse for one couple, who are
willing to pay more to change the architect's original layout to suit their
needs.

Housebuilders are also taking part in the regeneration of the area around the
Baltic centre and the river in Newcastle-Upon-Tyne. Wimpey Homes is putting up
seven apartment blocks including 26 penthouses on the east quayside overlooking
the Tyne. The three-bed apartments with balconies overlooking the river will be
available from next autumn. No prices are yet available.

The sector accounts for a tiny proportion of the housing market but developers
and agents say the interest in penthouse apartments shows the regeneration of
Britain's cities is well underway.


LOAD-DATE: December 3, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              446 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 4, 1999, Saturday

MONITOR: ETA'S CEASE-FIRE;
 ALL THE NEWS OF THE WORLD

BYLINE: Research By Sally Chatterton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 329 words


European reactions to the Basque terrorist group's

decision to end its cease-fire after 18 months

El Mundo

Spain

ETA HAS decided to blackmail Spain once more: either it gets its way or it will
kill again. The government has in the last few months made a considerable effort
to attend to what might be permissible and reasonable among Basque nationalist
demands, and it plans to continue to do so. But no civilised society can accept
the extortion imposed by a tiny minority, however savage it may be.

u

ABC

Spain

ETA AND its political allies represent a secessionist option, which is a totally
illegitimate justification for violence. Despite pointing to the Irish process
as a model that the Spanish government has failed to follow, Basque nationalists
do not recognise that the international community's satisfaction about that is
that it has ended civil confrontation, maintaining the territorial integrity of
Great Britain. It has ended IRA terrorist violence and has managed to integrate
its representatives into a multi-party government. Basque nationalists have done
nothing comparable.

u

La Vanguardia

Spain

THERE LIES no interest in criticising democratic Basque nationalist parties for
appealing to Eta for a change of heart. But it's absurd to think that such an
irrational desire will have the effect of softening Eta. It is not credible that
to make Eta stop killing we should stop demanding that Eta stop killing. It's
nonsense to suggest that you show willing to obey a tyrant in order that the
tyrant stops ruling. And tyrants don't tend to become more human, however many
genuflexions they receive.

u

tribune de

Geneve

Switzerland

THE BASQUE separatist organisation's about-turn is not unexpected. It is the
result of an incompatibility between the radical nationalists, who have
compromised on none of their demands, and a government that is disinclined to
pay the "political price" demanded.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              447 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            December 5, 1999, Sunday

MURDERED COPS' FAMILIES GET THOUSANDS IN PEACE DIVIDEND

BYLINE: Nick Comfort & Jason Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 543 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair is set to order special "peace dividend" cash payments
to RUC victims of terror over the past 30 years, Sunday People can reveal.

The move, set to be announced within days, follows a call inside the Patten
report urging a "substantial fund" to help injured officers, retired victims and
their families, and special help for the police Widows' Association.

Over the last 30 years, 302 RUC officers were killed and a staggering 9,263
injured in terrorist incidents.

Up to now victims and families have depended on payments from the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Scheme totalling around pounds 45 million to date.

The government says that scheme is "one of the most generous available in any
country", but payments from it are likely to be boosted.

In addition RUC victims of terrorism can get injury pensions, with special
arrangements for widows.

The campaign for "adequate and just" long-term aid for police victims of terror
is being backed by the Church of Ireland Primate, Lord Eames.

Last night he welcomed the breakthrough on the issue.

He said that "any recognition for people who have suffered so much, particularly
in the current political climate, is a positive development."

Armagh-based Archbishop Eames has pressed in the House of Lords for a generous
outcome to a series of reviews of the problem now being undertaken by the
government, and ministers have promised a decision as soon as possible.

"I have wanted this issue brought to the fore. The people who are feeling very
hurt by what is going on must not be forgotten," he said.

"This is one way to show that people are not losing sight of the suffering.

"There are familes who are afraid that they have been the forgotten victims of
the last 30 years."

RUC chief constable Ronnie Flanagan, in a response to the Patten report, said
there was "widespread disappointment" at the fleeting mention of officers who
were killed and the thousands who were injured in the Troubles.

"This disappointment was borne not of a desire to receive some retrospective
recognition of their efforts," he said.

"Rather it reflects a surprise at failure to acknowledge that this sacrifice
represents an outstanding cornerstone upon which any policing arrangements could
be built."

Patten's proposals to change the force's badge and rid it of any association
with Britain were also criticised by the RUC boss.

But the latest move is expected to be welcomed by Sir Ronnie.

Last night a senior officer at the RUC's Belfast headquarters told Sunday
People: "It's about time there was better treatment for the widows of murdered
RUC officers.

"We know there will be cynics who will see this move by the government as some
sort of appeasement in the wake of political developments but there has been a
long campaign for these moves."

RUC widows can expect to receive payments totalling several thousand pounds.

Officers injured during the Troubles will also receive large cheques from the
government as one-off payments.

Meanwhile Sir Ronnie Flanagan praised his officers in Kosovo yesterday.

Dozens of police, including his own son Darren, are serving in the former
Yugoslav territory as police peace-keepers.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNITED: RUC Chief Constable Ronnie Flanagan and Archbishop Eames;;
FRONT LINE: 302 RUC officers have been killed and 9,263 injured in the course of
duty during Northern Ireland's 30 years of Troubles

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              448 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 7, 1999, Tuesday

VIETNAM ENDS ELVIS DIES AND THATCHER TAKES OVER;
 100 YEAR JOURNEY THROUGH CHRISTMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24, 25

LENGTH: 393 words


1970: Novelist E.M. Forster - the author of Howard's End, Passage to India and
Room With A View, dies in Coventry.

Police in America shoot into crowd of Ohio students protesting against Vietnam
war - four killed.

British army starts using rubber bullets in Belfast.

Radioactive leak at Windscale - now Sellafield nuclear power station.

1971: Rolls-Royce declared bankrupt in UK. Idi Amin takes power in Uganda.

A 4,000-strong Women's Liberation march passes through London. First heart and
lung transplant.

In Switzerland, women finally get the vote.

1972: Arab terrorists kill 11 Israeli atheletes at Munich Olympics. President
Richard Nixon travels to China to meet Chairman Mao Tse-Tung.

1973: Open University awards first degrees.

First woman admitted on to floor of London Stock Exchange in 171 years of its
existence.

Red Rum wins Grand National in record time. Artist Pablo Picasso dies. Juan
Peron becomes president of Argentina.

1974: IRA attempt to bomb Coventry post office.

Birmingham pub bombings. Brazilian government refuses to extradite Great Train
Robber Ronnie Biggs.

Harold Wilson becomes prime minister. Cyclone Fifi kills 10,000 in Honduras.

Suspected murderer Lord Lucan goes missing.

1975: The war in Vietnam is finally over.

Britain votes to stay in EEC. Birmingham Six are sentenced to life for pub
bombings. General Franco dies in Spain.

1976: Concorde makes first commercial flights.

In South Africa 176 die in Soweto riots. Olympic Games in Montreal are dazzled
by gymnast Nadia Comaneci.

In Ireland 25,000 Protestants and Roman Catholics go on a peace march.

1977: Seven IRA bombs go off in London's West End. Red Rum wins Grand National
for third time.

China bans work of local lad William Shakespeare. Elvis Presley and Charlie
Chaplin die.

1978: Anna Ford becomes ITN's first woman newscaster - following the BBC's
appointment of Angela Rippon. John Paul l becomes pope.

Louise Brown is first test tube baby. Conservatives appoint advertising agency
Saatchi and Saatchi to run election campaign.

1979: Margaret Thatcher becomes first female prime minister in Europe.

Airey Neave, MP, the opposition spokesman on Northern Ireland, killed by IRA car
bomb. Accident at America's Three Mile Island nuclear power station causes major
crisis.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              449 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 7, 1999, Tuesday

FACTORIES HIT BY HONG KONG FLU;
 100 YEAR JOURNEY THROUGH CHRISTMAS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22, 23

LENGTH: 813 words


CHRISTMAS during the 1970s went from flared trousers to punk rock and was the
decade when Santa Claus finally caught up with the silicon chip - electronic
games became all the rage.

But in the first week of January, 1970, thousands were ill with a vicious strain
of Hong Kong flu that killed 13 people in Coventry and resulted in a staggering
2,850 deaths nationwide.

The sickness - along with celebration hangovers - led to firms like Massey
Ferguson, Standard Triumph and GEC-AEI starting the new year with 20 to 30 per
cent of their workforce absent.

Women's Lib campaigner Germaine Greer had already written the Female Eunuch and
was delivering electrifying lectures at Warwick University where she has since
returned.

At that time you could buy a three bedroomed detached house in Allesley for
pounds 7,700 and a similar property in Alderman's Green for pounds 3,999.

On Christmas Eve, 1971, sixth formers at Cardinal Wiseman school were beginning
a two day "fast" of rice and water to highlight the needs of those starving in
third world countries.

A few days later things didn't look so bright for 2,500 workers at Jaguar who,
after two strikes at the Radford plant, were facing a progressive lay-off and
shutdown. Nationally the unemployment rate was 814,819 - the highest since 1940.

In 1972 Mike and Bernie Winters were getting the most out of Aladdin at the
Coventry Theatre and American president Richard Nixon was scoring a hit with
Chairman Mao Tse-Tung in China. But the bungled bugging of the Watergate
building in Washington was already a timebomb waiting to sweep him from office.

In 1973 more than 1,000 items of food were left at Coventry's Holy Trinity
Church for the 40 people who would sit down to Christmas dinner at the Cyrenians
shelter in Queen Victoria Road.

The following year the Cyrenians anticipated 100 homeless guests. Launching an
appeal for extra supplies, Ron Perrans, chairman of the night shelter committee,
said: "After all, to taste boiled ham for the first time in 20 years is
something of an event."

But city people were still reeling from the shock of IRA bomber James McDade who
accidentally blew himself up while trying to blow up Coventry telephone exchange
on 14 November, 1974.

No-one else was injured. But a week later, as McDade's remains were returned to
Ireland, 21 people were killed and 160 wounded in the Birmingham pub bombings.

Chopper bikes were everywhere in 1974 and even the national papers were full of
Robert Relf, the self-confessed racist who went to prison rather than sell his
house in Cowdray Close, Leamington Spa, to an immigrant.

Laws to stamp out racial bigotry had angered many in Britain and America, where
Alberta King, mother of the murdered civil rights leader Martin Luther King, was
herself assassinated in church.

In 1975 city councillors were tightening their belts and had decided not to put
up Christmas decorations. Coventry Co-op driver Michael Stott tried to make up
for the gloom by a borrowing a ten foot long banner from work which he used to
wish everyone in his cul-de-sac A Merry Christmas.

All the major stores - with the exception of C and A - took a four day holiday.
Miners at the two Coventry colliers were given an unheard of ten day break!

But in 1976 it was Christmas on the "never never" for many. Local stores
reported that most household goods were being purchased on a buy now, pay later
basis. But there was still the usual last minute rush with loaves being grabbed
in batches of ten and twenty at Tesco's and all six city centre car parks jammed
by 9am on Christmas Eve.

The Bishop of Coventry, the Rt Rev John Gibbs, led the annual early morning
carol service for shop assistants in December, 1977. He told them: "One of the
reasons Christmas is so popular is because it is centred on something we can all
understand - the birth of a baby."

There was also a multi-denominational service in the shopping precinct at which
a donkey was solemnly led past the crowds of shoppers.

By 1978, Jim McCormack, manager of British Home Stores, was making a concerted
bid to clamp down on theft. Along with other managers, he hoped to pass on
warning signals at the first sign of a professional shop lifting gang hitting
town.

The following year Mr McCormack was reporting that exotic nightwear had become
one of his biggest sellers.

By then the Evening Telegraph was talking about the outrageous behaviour of the
anarchic, multi-pierced Sex Pistols and the city's car parks were "bursting at
the seams" by 8am as shoppers dashed out to snap up electronic Mastermind for
pounds 9.99 along with Battleship and the Operation - which could well have
spawned today's craze for hospital television dramas.

On Christmas Eve Santa was out delivering sackloads of the things - all
containing the miraculous chip.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RACE RELATIONS: (Far left) Robert Relf caused national uproar when he
chose prison before selling his house to 'immigrants'. ON HIS BIKE:; (Left)
Coventry's Olympic cyclist John Atkins. DAME FOR A LAUGH: Rehearsals for
Coventry Theatre's production of 'Jack and the Beanstalk.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              450 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 8, 1999

Kremlin made to pay ;West puts Russia under economic siege over Chechen death
threat

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 656 words


RUSSIA was stripped of a £400m loan last night and threatened with the loss of
millions of pounds more in vital foreign aid after refusing to lift its "leave
or die" ultimatum on the people of Grozny.

As Russian bombs continued to rain on the battered Chechen capital, the
international community warned there would be an economic price to pay if Moscow
refused to drop its threat against thousands of civilians sheltering from its
onslaught.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said European leaders gathering for their summit in
Helsinki tomorrow night would discuss withholding EU aid earmarked for Russia's
development.

He also confirmed the International Monetary Fund, galvanised by worldwide
outrage, has put a block on the £400m loan which the country desperately needs
to keep its economy afloat.

"Britain understands that Russia has legitimate concerns about terrorism and
violent crime in Chechnya," Mr Cook told MPs in a Commons statement.

"But we cannot understand how Russia imagines that it can root out terrorism by
attacking the whole of a population. We appeal to Russia not to escalate its
military campaign in a way which will further undermine its relations with the
outside world and further damage its own national interest."

To underline the Government's concern, Russian ambassador Yuri Fokin was
summoned to the Foreign Office for a diplomatic dressing down from Foreign
Minister Keith Vaz. Mr Cook said Mr Fokin was told "to convey to Moscow the
alarm and dismay of Britain and its partners at the recent turn of events in
Chechnya".

The Russian government, which has won plaudits at home for its uncompromising
stance against the Chechen independence movement, complained that the deal with
IMF had already been agreed. "The entire situation causes disappointment and, to
a great degree, even bewilderment," First Deputy Prime Minister Viktor
Khristenko said.

It is believed up to 40,000 civilians are still trapped inside Grozny. A UN
spokeswoman warned that thousands of them could die. She said the effect of the
ultimatum was to "terrify an already terrified population". She added: "The
people who are trapped inside Grozny are the ones who cannot get out because
they are sick, they are old or they are very young."

The international pressure, however, could be having an effect. There were
suggestions that Moscow was prepared to soften its threat to kill any Chechens -
soldier or civilian - left in Grozny when its deadline expires on Saturday.
Interior Minister Vladimir Rushailo said civilians would be allowed to escape
even after the deadline.

The hint from Moscow came only after world leaders teamed up to underline their
dismay at the way Russia has used indiscriminate violence against what it
describes as Chechen "terrorists" intent on winning independence from Moscow.

The Russian air force dumped thousands of leaflets on Grozny ordering its
residents to leave through a safe corridor or face annihilation. "Persons who
stay in the city will be considered terrorists and bandits and will be destroyed
by artillery and aviation. There will be no further negotiations. Everyone who
does not leave the city will be destroyed," the leaflets said.

US President Bill Clinton warned Russia would sink into a "morass that will
intensify extremism and diminish its own standing in the world".

In London there was unanimous political support for Mr Cook's tough stance. For
the Tories, Shadow Foreign Secretary John Maples said the Russians were causing
"death, destruction and suffering" on an unacceptable scale and Lib -Dem foreign
affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell admitted all political parties, including his
own, "have been supine in the face of the medieval barbarism directed against
the people of Chechnya".

Nato Secretary-General Lord Robertson called Russia's tactics "ham-fisted".

The final battle Page 13

Leader comment Page 16

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Huddled masses: refugees flee Chechnya on the back of an overcrowded
truck, heading into neighbouring Ingushetia before the Saturday deadline set by
the Kremlin Picture: EPA

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              451 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 8, 1999, Wednesday Edition 1

West blasts Kremlin over 'leave or die' ultimatum -;
£400m IMF aid blocked over Chechen crisis

BYLINE: by Bob Roberts

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 476 words


   Russia and the West were last night locked in a deepening diplomatic crisis
over the "leave or die" ultimatum issued to the residents of the Chechen capital
of Grozny.

And in a further development, Foreign Secretary Robin Cook said the
International Monetary Fund had decided not to give £400m to Russia.

Earlier the Government showed its anger at the Russian ultimatum by summoning
their ambassador to the Foreign Office for a dressing down.

Mr Cook told the House of Commons that the European summit in Helsinki at the
weekend would consider stopping European aid to modernise the Russian economy.

"Britain understands that Russia has legitimate concerns about terrorism and
violent crime in Chechnya.

"But we cannot understand how Russia imagines that it can root out terrorism by
attacking the whole of a population.

"We appeal to Russia not to escalate its military campaign in a way which will
further undermine its relations with the outside world and further damage its
own national interest."

Russian commanders have told people living in Grozny to leave by Saturday before
their forces unleash a massive artillery and air bombardment.

Leaflets dropped onto the city said a safe corridor would be open until December
11 to let civilians escape.

"Persons who stay in the city will be considered terrorists and bandits and will
be destroyed by artillery and aviation. There will be no further negotiations.
Everyone who does not leave the city will be destroyed," the leaflets said.

The ultimatum to the beleaguered city triggered a wave of outrage in Western
capitals.

In Washington, in his strongest comments to date on the crisis, President Bill
Clinton described the Russian tactics as "wrong" and warned they would be
counter-productive.

"Russia will pay a heavy price for those actions, with each passing day sinking
more deeply into a morass that will intensify extremism and diminish its own
standing," he said.

Relief agencies have also said an all-out assault could lead to a humanitarian
disaster.

Spokeswoman for the UNHCR, Lyndal Sachs, said the effect of the Russian
ultimatum was to "terrify an already terrified population".

She added: "The people who are trapped inside Grozny are the ones who can't get
out because they are sick, they are old or they are very young.

"To tell these people to leave just creates conditions on the ground which are
impossible for them to meet."

The Russians, however, showed little sign of backing down in their military
campaign and criticised the IMF decision to withhold money.

The Foreign Office later gave a lukewarm response to reports the Russians may
extend the life of the 'escape corridor'.

A spokesman said: "In a sense, it's not how long the corridor may stay open,
it's that people in Grozny might not be able to get through it."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Warning: Robin Cook.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              452 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 8, 1999, Wednesday

AID THREAT TO RUSSIA OVER BLITZ ON GROZNY

BYLINE: Mark Dowdney Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 186 words


WORLD leaders were last night threatening to cut Russia off without a penny in
an all-out bid to stop a bloodbath in Chechnya.

All aid will be halted if the Kremlin unleashes its threatened blitz on the
Grozny, capital of the rebel republic, this weekend.

A pounds 400million IMF loan has already been stopped.

At stake are the lives of up to 40,000 terrified civilians trapped there.

The crisis has plunged relations with Russia to their lowest since the Cold War.

Foreign Secretary Robin Cook angrily condemned Monday's ultimatum to the
residents of Grozny "to flee or be destroyed".

He told the Commons: "We cannot continue to assist Russia if it does not respect
basic human- itarian norms.

"Britain understands that Russia has legitimate concerns about terrorism and
violent crime in Chechnya.

"But we cannot understand how it imagines that it can root out terrorism by
attacking the whole of a population."

Russia's ambassador in London was yesterday told of Britain's "alarm and dismay"
at the ultimatum.

And European leaders meet this weekend to discuss an aid veto.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNING: Cook

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              453 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 9, 1999, Thursday

A PROVINCE THAT IS FULL OF SPIES AND THEIR GADGETS

BYLINE: Paul Lashmar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 476 words


INTELLIGENCE gathering operations in Northern Ireland have progressed over 30
years from amateurish fumblings to hi-tech sophistication that can eavesdrop on
the most secret discussions in apparently secure locations.

At the beginning of the Troubles, intelligence was so poor that the Army rounded
up for internment many innocent people, based on inaccurate or old information,
in an act that backfired severely. But the security forces have learnt lessons
which have made them one of the most formidable intelligence forces in the
world. In recent years, there has been so much electronic surveillance,
videoing, telephone tapping and bugging that it is a wonder that the Northern
Ireland population does not glow in the dark.

Such spying has not been the sole preserve of the British state despite the vast
resources it can bring to bear. As early as the 1970s, the IRA cannibalised
television sets for their UHF/VHF receivers so they could listen in to Army
radio communications.

In every area it has been a game of cat and mouse. When the IRA started using
radio-controlled bombs, scientists at Britain's GCHQ listening post designed
special radios to soak the province with signals. It was not until a number of
Provisional volunteers had been killed by bombs that exploded prematurely that
the IRA realised what was going on.

The IRA then switched tack and designed bombs that required two separate coded
signals to detonate. GCHQ took a while to work this one out but eventually they
did, and a few more IRA volunteers died.

In the last 20 years British intelligence has designed computer programs that
keep huge amounts of personal data on a large section of Northern Ireland's
population. These systems are said to store everything from their subjects'
political and paramilitary associations to the colour of their wallpaper and the
frequency of their car journeys.

In many ways, Northern Ireland became a testing ground for cutting-edge
intelligence operations. Bugging is nothing new - only three months ago The
Independent revealed that for a decade a tower near Capenhurst, Cheshire, was
used by GCHQ to intercept telephone traffic in the Irish Republic.

In May last year Mo Mowlam was accused of compromising a bugging operation on
the home in Belfast of Gerry Kelly, a leading Sinn Fein official and former IRA
bomber. The house was used during "talks about talks" after the first IRA
ceasefire. It is said that a false rafter was found in the living area of his
house; it had been hollowed out and packed full of electronics which were used
to monitor events for three years.

The equipment found in Sinn Fein's Ford Mondeo yesterday was clearly state-of
-the-art equipment and British intelligence must be cursing to have had such an
important piece of kit and an innovative modus operandi discovered.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              454 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 14, 1999

I'm simply protecting democracy;
Jack Straw

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1033 words


Given recent coverage, Guardian readers could be forgiven for believing that the
new terrorism bill marks the end of liberal democracy as we know it. As ever,
however, the reality is very different.

Legislating in this area is difficult. By its nature, terrorism is designed to
strike at the heart of our democratic values. That is all the more reason why we
must ensure that we get right the balance between defending the public from acts
of organised terror and ensuring that human rights are protected.

The main disagreement between the government and those like John Wadham is our
long-held belief that we need specific legislation to counter the on-going
terrorist threat.

It has, however, long been recognised that we need special laws to prevent and
deal with particular threats - just witness the success of the legislation
covering serious fraud and drug trafficking. Yet these have not resulted in
complaints about the injustices of a 'twin-track system".

With the new terrorism bill, we are proposing to move away from the rather
piecemeal and temporary approach that characterises current anti-terrorism
legislation.

For a quarter of a century, the prevention of terrorism act - introduced by one
of my more liberal predecessors, Roy Jenkins - has provided the police with
extra powers to counter the terrorist threat.

In opposition, the Labour party objected to three parts of that act. The
terrorism bill deals with each of them.

First, the PTA allowed ministers to exclude British citizens entering the
mainland from Northern Ireland, and vice versa - a form of internal exile which
was ineffective, wrong and opposed by nationalists and unionists alike. I lapsed
exclusion powers in early 1998 and, under this bill, they are to be scrapped
altogether.

Second, the PTA allowed ministers - not judges - to decide whether a terrorist
suspect should be detained by the police for longer than 48 hours. With this
bill, extensions to detention will require approval by a stipendiary magistrate
(or equivalent) - and at last allow the UK to overturn its derogation from a key
part of the European Convention on Human Rights.

Third, the PTA was a temporary measure to deal mainly with Irish terrorism, and
took no account of the changing nature of the terrorist threat. This legislation
puts that right too.

The powers available under the terrorism bill will be subject to a series of
checks and balances to ensure that they are used proportionately. As well as the
judicial oversight of extensions of detentions, proscribed organisations will
have a right of appeal to an independent body and all future authorisations of
the use of stop and search powers under the bill will have to be confirmed by me
or another minister.

Opponents of the bill have cited the proposed new definition of terrorism as an
affront to the individual's peaceful right to protest. It is no such thing. The
bill (which defines terrorism as 'the use or threat, for the purpose of
advancing a political, religious or ideological cause of action which involves
serious violence against any person or property, endangers the life of any
person or creates a serious risk to the health or safety of the public or a
section of the public'), in fact distinguishes more clearly than ever before the
situations in which anti-terrorist legislation should apply.

It increases the level of the threshold before which certain powers within the
bill can be activated, by making it clear that it refers to activities which
constitute 'serious violence'. Moreover, the definition itself does not create
any new criminal offence. Rather it is primarily the trigger for the use of the
powers in the bill. Terrorists committing serious acts of violence will continue
to be charged with the usual such offences, from murder to causing explosions.

The legislation is not intended to deal with alleged offences properly dealt
with under the existing criminal law. Neither will it in any way curb
individuals' democratic rights to protest peacefully. The difference between
'serious violence' and 'violence' will not be meaningless in a court of law, as
some have suggested. Our courts are well used and perfectly able to apply the
word 'serious" in the context of specific circumstances, and do so, for
instance, when considering aggravating features in criminal cases. So this will
make a difference.

At the same time the new bill widens the scope of the legislation, extending it
to include the threats posed by terrorists both domestically and
internationally. It must be right for the law to deal on the same basis with all
groups or individuals intent on causing death and injury here in Britain to
further a cause. This is particularly necessary as the nature of the terrorist
threat changes.

Finally, some have claimed that the new legislation will prevent individuals and
organisations opposing oppressive regimes overseas - the 'Mandela" effect.
Protest from here, as they see it, will brand them terrorists.

But there is a world of difference between an individual's rights to freedom of
expression and protest and the plotting of serious violence. What the bill will
do is also to outlaw the incitement of murder and other extremely serious
terrorist-related crimes of violence. Any prosecution would also require the
consent of the director of public prosecutions if it is to proceed. This part of
the bill fills a gap in the law.

Existing legislation which has imple mented various international conventions
means that it is already an offence here to incite anyone abroad to hijack an
aircraft, or someone in Turkey or India to commit murder. Why should similar
incitement of terrorist murder in Japan or Australia not also be an offence?

This bill strengthens the powers to meet an ever-changing, ever-present threat,
yet is properly regulated by a series of safeguards. Every terrorist attack
represents a violation of our democratic values, and as such our response must
be sufficiently robust to challenge and defeat these vile activities at all
times. I think we have got the balance right.

Jack Straw is MP for Blackburn and the home secretary


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              455 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               December 14, 1999

New force poised to beat terror weapons;
 TOUGH ON TYRANTS

BYLINE: David Humphrey

SECTION: News, Pg.30

LENGTH: 279 words


A UNIQUE regiment made up of soldiers and RAF personnel has made its debut on
Salisbury Plain amid the growing military threat posed by third world tyrants.

Britain's new Joint Nuclear, Biological and Chemical Regiment will lead
Britain's fight against dictators or criminals willing to use these terrifying
weapons.

The fledgling unit will take the lead in protecting British military units
serving overseas and providing a detection and identification capability at home
in the event of a terrorist incident.

Senior police officers and Home Office officials have been briefed about the
regiment's new capability at Britain's NBC Headquarters at Winterbourne Gunner
near Salisbury.

The regiment - created as part of the government's Strategic Defence Review -
will begin operations on Jan 1 with 300 personnel.

But there are plans to increase its size with the arrival of new biological
weapons sampling kit within three years.

One of the prototype biological weapons sampling rigs is already deployed to
Kuwait where it monitors the air and environment used by RAF personnel deployed
on United Nations operations over southern Iraq.

Lt Col David Eccles, commanding officer of the Joint NBC Regiment, said: "What
we have here is a capability that puts us in the same rank as the United States
and Germany in terms of being able to deal with the NBC threat."

The regiment is equipped with German-built Fuchs vehicles, which can be used to
test for nuclear and chemical contamination.

The drivers and crew sit in their own protected environment while external
equipment measures the atmosphere and passes the result to an on-board computer.



LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              456 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 15, 1999, Wednesday

LETTER: 'GOOD' TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Vincent Mckenna

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 443 words


IN THE final Northern Ireland question time of 1999 at Westminster, Conservative
MP Owen Patterson asked the Security Minister Adam Ingram about levels of
terrorist violence in Northern Ireland since the Good Friday Agreement.

Mr Ingram replied that the security situation was fine with the exception of
some dissident loyalist and dissident republicans. Mr Patterson then went on in
a supplementary question to state the number of murders, shootings, beatings,
intimidation's and exiles carried out by those terrorists who are supposed to be
on ceasefire. We can also add to these figures 2, 904 attacks on the RUC, 921
armed robberies and several hundred petrol bomb attacks since the Good Friday
Agreement.

One week after the final Northern Ireland question time of the Millennium, M16
briefed the media in Britain that dissident republicans were about to blow up
the Millennium Dome. Even the Gardai were surprised at this security assessment
by M16 and the Gardia told journalists that they didn't believe that dissident
republicans had such intentions or capacity at this time.

Meanwhile, back on the ground, the terrorists whom the government say are not a
threat to our people continued shooting, beating, petrol bombing, exiling,
intimidating, robbing on a daily basis.

So why are the politicians and certain sections of the media finding it more
important to chase shadows rather than the terrorists?

Firstly, everyone who is tuned in to the terrorist position recognise that there
is a threat from so-called dissident loyalist and republican terrorists, however
this threat must be seen in proportion to the realities on the ground.

The exaggerated threat from dissident republicans by the Governments' spin
doctors makes the Sinn Fein/IRA and their loyalist counterparts look "good". The
denying of on-going terrorism by the "good" terrorists makes it easier to get
them into government and keep them there. For the government to admit that the
"good" terrorists are continuing to do what they do best, would be an admission
of failure for a government that needs more than any other to be seen to
succeed.

Perhaps it is now time for the Government and some of our more liberal
politicians to face the continued terrorism of our people by the "good"
terrorists and see such a challenge as an admission of reality rather than an
admission of failure.

The constituency of victims of terrorist violence grows each and every day and
the longer this constituency is ignored the longer the possibility of a real and
lasting peace will remain beyond our grasp.

Vincent McKenna, Northern Ireland, Human Rights Bureau.

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 16, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

World round-up

SECTION: INTERNATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 571 words


   MALAWI: A candle set fire to children's costumes in a nativity play at the
American-run Christian Academy mission school in Lilongwe, killing one pupil and
burning five others, two severely. The youngsters were aged between six and 12.

UNITED STATES: Travis Butler, nine, who lived alone with his mother's corpse for
a month, sat solemnly at her military funeral and was given the American flag
that had covered her coffin. Friends found Ben alone with the body at the
Memphis flat where he lived with his mother, ex-soldier Crystal Wells, 30, who
had apparently died of natural causes.

UNITED STATES: Lydia Hanson, seven, spent a night sleeping in her dead mother's
arms after a teacher ignored her when she said her mother Kimberly, 33, a
diabetic, had died. She spent the rest of the day at Kiley School in Peabody,
Massachusetts, went home and spent the night holding the hand of her dead
mother.

JORDAN: Thirteen people - 11 Jordanians, an Iraqi and an Algerian - suspected of
planning terrorist attacks against Americans have been arrested. The suspects
had recently arrived from Afghanistan, where they had received military
training.

FRANCE: Five people are missing after a helicopter crashed while carrying
supplies to an astronomical observatory at the top of the Pic de Bure near
Grenoble, high in the French Alps. The observatory has been accessible only by
helicopter since summer when a cable car from the valley plunged to the ground
killing 20 people.

Russia: Moscow cut off natural gas deliveries to Moldova because the former
Soviet republic owes £375m. Mihai Griu, chairman of the natural gas company
Moldovagaz, said that by this morning, there would be no electricity in the
country of 4.3 million.

FRANCE: A strike by ground staff who refuel aircraft caused delays and flight
cancellations at about 15 French airports, seriously affecting about 10pc of air
traffic. Domestic airlines were hardest hit because others could refuel outside
France.

UNITED STATES: Maria Wigent, 37, jailed for two years for shoplifting £15 worth
of cigarettes, eye drops and deodorant in New York state has been ordered to be
deported to Italy - a country she left when she was aged five. Wigent is married
to an American and has two teenage sons.

RUSSIA: The new, Kremlin-backed Unity bloc and the Communist Party are neck and
neck in the run-up to this weekend's parliamentary elections. One poll shows the
Communists with 19pc while 17.6pc would choose Unity - in another, Unity is
ahead of the Communists, with 21.9pc compared to 17.7pc.

JAPAN: Family troubles, problems in school and other worries drove suicides by
public school students up 44pc last year to their highest level in 12 years.
Suicides by students in public primary, middle and high schools totalled 192,
far above the 133 in 1997 and the highest since 268 killed themselves in 1986.

UNITED STATES: Six farmers opposing genetically engineered food have filed aa
lawsuit accusing US agricultural giant Monsanto of conspiring to control the
world's seed trade. Companion lawsuits are being considered in several foreign
countries, including Britain and India, said Michael Hausfeld, lead lawyer in
the case.

CYPRUS: Leaders of the war-divided island agreed after a day full of doubts to
resume UN sponsored indirect reunification talks at the end of January. Cyprus
has been unofficially partitioned since Turkey

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              458 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          December 18, 1999, Saturday

CLOSING OF THE CENTURY;
 TODAY WE CONCLUDE OUR LOOK BACK IN PICTURES AT THE LAST CENTURY, WITH THE
DEFINING MOMENTS CAPTURED ON CAMERA BETWEEN 1975 AND 1999

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16, 33

LENGTH: 1069 words


1976

BIRMINGHAM lad John Curry won the men's figure skating gold medal at the
Innsbruck Winter Olympic Games in February. In July, Swede Bjorn Borg became the
youngest Wimbledon champion for 45 years. On September 9, Chairman Mao Tse
-tung, leader of Communist China's 800 million people, died at the age of 82.

1977

IN the year we celebrated the Queen's Silver Jubilee, Red Rum galloped away to
his third Grand National win. On September 26 Freddie Laker launched his cut
-price Skytrain service to New York.

1978

IN March, the stricken super-tanker, Amoco Cadiz, created the worst oil spill in
history off Brittany. On October 16, Pole, Cardinal Karol Wojtyla, became Pope
John-Paul II, the first non-Italian leader of the Catholic Church for more than
400 years.

1979

THE Tories ruled Britain again, and the nation had its first woman Prime
Minister.

On August 27 Lord Mountbatten was killed by an IRA bomb.

1980

IN March an oil platform used as a floating hotel for North Sea rig workers
capsized with half the 200 men aboard feared dead. On September 22 Solidarity,
with shipyard worker Lech Walesa as its leader was created.

1981

IN the year television viewers all over the world watched the Prince of Wales
marry Lady Diana Spencer, Britain's towns and cities suffered the worst
outbreaks of civil unrest this century as youths went on the rampage. On a
happier note, the first woman cox in the history of the Boat Race, Susan Brown,
steered her Oxford crew to victory.

1982

ON April 2, Argentina invaded the Falkland Islands, and HMS Coventry was sunk in
action. June saw Israel invade Lebanon after its ambassador in London was shot
by Palestinian gunmen. On November 24 Mother Teresa of Calcutta was presented
with the Order of Merit by the Queen.

1984

OCTOBER 12, an IRA bomb intended to assassinate most of the British cabinet
during the Tory's annual conference, devastated the Grand Hotel, Brighton. On
the 31st, Mrs Indira Gandhi, Prime Minister of India, was assassinated by her
Sikh bodyguards.

1985

IN May fire swept through the packed main stand of Bradford City football ground
killing over 40 soccer fans. On September 22, babies were plucked alive from the
devastation of an earthquake in Mexico which claimed the lives of more than
8,500.

1986

IN the year the world witnessed the worst civil nuclear disaster, when a Soviet
reactor released radioactive dust across Europe, Ferdinand Marcos, President of
the Philippines, was toppled from power. In the September Nissan, the Japanese
car maker, opened a new plant near Sunderland.

1987

THE Sky Blues won the FA Cup at Wembley Stadium on May 16, for the first time.
On March 6, car ferry Herald of Free Enterprise, sank a mile outside the Belgian
port of Zeebrugge, and 200 were feared dead. In August, gunman Michael Ryan went
on a rampage in the pretty town of Hungerford killing 14, and October 19 was
Black Monday on the stock market.

1988

JAGUAR won its first Le Mans since 1957 and Senna became F1 king amid public
rows with rival Piquet. Prince Charles narrowly escaped death by avalanche, and
166 were killed in a gas explosion on British oil rig Piper Alpha. Pan Am Boeing
flight 747 crashed on the Scottish border town of Lockerbie killing 259 in the
air and 11 on the ground.

1989

FORD Motor Company bought Jaguar Cars, Honda acquired a 20% stake in Rover and
Toyota announced it would be the third Japanese company to build cars in
Britain.

A death sentence on the British author Salmon Rushdie was issued by Iran's
Ayatollah Khomeini, and the Hillborough stadium disaster in Sheffield saw 95
Liverpool fans crushed to death. 1989 also saw the dismantling of the Berlin
wall.

1990

IN the year British beef was banned in several countries because of "mad cow
disease", French and British Eurotunnel workers shook hands under the tunnel.

1991

THE Gulf War began and hospitals in Coventry and Warwickshire were put on alert
to deal with possible casualties. August saw Soviet President Gorbachev toppled
in a dramatic coup. In November Miners at Coventry Colliery worked their last
shift, and Terry Waite was on his way home after nearly five years as a hostage
in Beirut.

1992

JOHN MAJOR won the general election, and both Charles and Diana, and the Duke
and Duchess of York announced they were to separate. Linford Christie won the
100 metres, and Nigel Mansell clinched his first world title.

1993

A LITTLE town in Holland called Maastricht became a household name as the
European Parliament voted for the Treaty - just. Coventry-born pop impressario
Pete Waterman became joint-owner of the world's most famous locomotive - Flying
Scotsman.

And "Camillagate" caused repercussions for Prince Charles.

1994

NELSON MANDELLA was sworn in as President of South Africa, and John McCarthy was
freed. The motor industry was rocked by BMW's buy-out of Rover, and Benetton
shocked the world with its ad campaign. Le Shuttle began operating at last.

1995

ALCOPOPS hit the streets, and the Mini was voted Car of the Century by the
magazine Autocar.

1996

A CENTENARY celebration to mark the building of the first car was held at
Coventry Cathedral in the January. In March a minister ruled that hundreds of
former Matrix Churchill workers sacked amid the arms-to-Iraq scandal, would be
refused compensation.

1997

PRINCESS DIANA and Dodi Fayed were killed when their limousine crashed in a
Paris tunnel on August 31. In October Tornado pilot Andy Green, took time off
his RAF duties to make Richard Noble's Thrust SSC the fastest car on earth.

1998

COVENTRY Kid Adam Redhead was able to attend the world famous Boston Higashi
school in America thanks to more than pounds 60,000 being raised in memory of
his brother by generous Evening Telegraph readers.

American millionaire Steve Fossett, and Swede Per Lindstrand, joined Virgin boss
Richard Branson on his round-the-world balloon flight.

SONGS OF THE QUARTER

Bright Eyes 1979

Don't Cry For Me Argentina, 1977

Do They Know It's Christmas? 1984

Every Loser Wins 1986

Fame 1982

I Wanna Dance With Somebody 1987

Let's Groove 1981

The Power Of Love 1985

Rivers of Babylon 1978

Save Your Kisses For Me 1976

Uptown Girl 1983

Wannabee 199X

Woman In Love 1980

Wonderwall 199X

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNERAL: Hundreds of mourners follow three hearses containg the coffins
of seven-year-old Michelle Baird, her mother, Evelyn, and her common-law husband
Michael Morrison, three days after an IRA bomb exploded in a fish market killing
a total of ten people. October 1993 SUFFERING:; Four years after the 1986
Chernobyl nuclear accident these children were suffering intestinal problems
from exposure to radiation CARE: Princess; Diana talks to amputees at the Neves
Bendinha Workshop on the outskirts of; Luanda, Angola, in January 1997 HUNGER:
Aabiba Nuur, who weighs only 46 pounds, sits in an Irish Concern Feeding centre
dedicated to adults in; Baidoa, Somalia. December 1992 BIG WORD: Lech Walesa,
leader of the former; Solidarity Union reacts to cheers from fellow workers as
he leaves the; Lenin Shipyards in Gdansk, Poland. June 1983

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              459 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          December 18, 1999, Saturday

Police braced for new year meltdown

BYLINE: Stewart Tendler, Mark Henderson and Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 836 words


RECORD numbers of police are being ordered on to the streets of Britain for the
first hours of the millennium as chief constables prepare for what many fear
could be the most chaotic New Year ever.

Casualty units are doubling the number of doctors on duty and making plans to
cope with anything from injured drunks to terrorist attacks.

The biggest known threat to public safety is the unprecedented 36 hours when
pubs and bars will be allowed to serve alcohol - from 11am on New Year's Eve to
11pm on New Year's Day.

The unpredictable danger is posed by the so-called Millennium Bug. Although few
now fear the computer glitch will cause chaos, a police officer has been sent to
Sydney, 12 hours ahead, to observe any problems in Australia and report back to
Scotland Yard. British officers on attachment to embassies in the Far East and
Middle East will also alert London.

Government ministries, commercial institutions and the oil and mining industries
have ordered satellite telephones in case communications break down.

The scale of the potential threat can be measured in the size of the police
operation, with an estimated national bill of Pounds 50million. Almost every
force in the country has cancelled all leave for the millennium celebrations.

The Metropolitan Police force is putting 12,000 officers on duty in London - on
a normal Saturday night, there are fewer than 500 on the streets of the capital.
New Year's Eve typically sees just 1,600 officers on duty.

Crowds of up to 3.5million are expected in the centre of the capital, according
to the latest government and police estimates. No other city in the world is
planning millennium celebrations on the scale and complexity of London. Scotland
Yard is organising the largest public safety operation mounted in Britain and
providing an emergency liaison centre for the whole country. The weather
forecast suggests a mild night, which will help to swell the crowds.

Sir Paul Condon, Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, will be reporting to a
government committee set up to deal with civil contingencies and headed by Jack
Straw, the Home Secretary. Mr Straw's team will meet to assess operations in the
hours leading up to midnight and reconvene early on New Year's Day to assess the
night's events.

The main concern is crowd control and safety. The alert for an attack from Irish
republican groups is still high but the threat has receded slightly. Latest
intelligence assessments suggest there is little danger from millennium cults.
Ian Johnston, the Assistant Commissioner in charge of the millennium policing
operation, said: "The big challenge will be the great movement and
unpredictability of crowds."

Most traffic will be banned from Central London in the hours around midnight.
Only people working or living in the area will be allowed access by car.

The Association of Chief Police Officers will run a national information centre
and reinforcements will be on standby for cross-county duty in the event of
emergencies.

In the West Midlands, 2,000 more officers will be on duty than usual, including
600 extra in Birmingham. In addition, a flying squad of 100 officers will be on
hand to move swiftly where they are needed.

Lothian and Borders Police said the Edinburgh Hogmanay celebration, attended by
180,000 people, would be policed by 1,200 police and stewards. Edinburgh Royal
Infirmary managers believe 1,000 patients could be admitted on New Year's Eve.
There will be a "drying out" area for drunken casualties.

St Thomas's Hospital A&E department, which is closest to Trafalgar Square, will
be manned by 12 doctors and 20 nurses, twice as many as usual. Chris Lacy, A&E
consultant, said the department was ready for up to 800 patients, four times as
many as a normal New Year's Eve.

At St Mary's Hospital in Paddington, West London, Rachel Landau, the consultant
responsible for millennium planning, said: "We are expecting all sorts of
injuries, from heart attacks and strokes to fall injuries."

A total of 231 ambulances will be on duty in London, with 12 first-aid posts
along the Thames. Ian Bogle, chairman of the British Medical Association, said
it was "the biggest planning operation in 37 years in the NHS". The operation
will cost more than Pounds 2million in London alone.

The National Pharmaceutical Association says that at least one pharmacist in
every health authority will be open. A complete list of rotas will be published
on the Internet (www.bma.org.uk).

Because mobile phone services are likely to overstretched, companies are urging
customers to send "happy new year" text messages instead. Mobile relay stations
will be deployed in some cities.

The Beatles' song "All You Need is Love" has been selected as the rock song to
be sung by all the performers gathered at the Dome shortly before 11.45pm on New
Year's Eve. The song reached an audience of 400million when it was broadcast in
1967 as part of the first global TV link-up.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              460 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 20, 1999

No red carpet for Chechen leader's envoy in Britain

BYLINE: David Hearst

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 617 words


David Hearst

Akhjad Idigov, the official representative of the president of Chechnya, did not
expect VIP treatment when he arrived last week in Britain to plead for
international help. But nor was he prepared for the two special branch officers
who took his baggage apart, claiming to look for guns and drugs.

The two-hour search at Waterloo station and the refusal of the US embassy in
Paris to grant him and his fellow Chechen parliamentarian a visa - on the
grounds that they might do a bunk in New York - demonstrate the west's official
discomfort and inaction in the face of Russia's military onslaught on Chechnya.

The two-man Chechen delegation has been relegated to the backwaters of
diplomatic debate. Mr Idigov twice addressed a Council of Europe debate, but
elsewhere only French Greens and Communists have been willing to listen. He only
got a British visa through the persistence of Vanessa Redgrave, the actor and
political activist.

As the bombardment continued in Grozny yesterday, Mr Idigov expressed his
indignation at the west's silence.

Casualty figures vary widely according to which side of the conflict they come
from. The latest Chechen tally is 15,000 dead; 38,000 injured; 220,000 refugees;
124 villages completely destroyed; and a further 280 villages with 80% damage.
They say that 14,500 children have been maimed and 20,000 of them orphaned.

'How at the end of the century can the world allow this?' asked Mr Idigov. 'You
in the west care about animals don't you? You have big demonstrations about
hunting and fishing. You all keep pets. But why don't you have demonstrations
about what's happening to living people?'

According to Mr Idigov, the absence inside Chechnya of non-governmental
organisations such as the International Committee of the Red Cross, UN bodies or
Medecins sans Frontieres were all the result of Moscow's policy of isolating his
country. 'The legally elected government received neither investments nor
humanitarian aid. Indeed, the Russians blocked everything.'

But was it not true that foreign aid workers and journalists had often became
kidnap fodder of Chechen bands, as the authority of President Aslan Maskhadov
crumbled?

'The provocations and kidnapping of journalists continued, but Russia never gave
out the names of the 'kidnappers' through whom they claim to have freed
hostages,' he said. 'The murder of three British and one New Zealand telecom
engineer was also used to discredit an entire nation - but Russia refused our
offer for a joint investigation.'

Moscow justifies its actions in Chechnya as an attack on terrorism. If no
evidence has been produced by the Russians to link the bombing of several Moscow
apartment blocks to the Chechens, the actions of Shamil Basayev, a Chechen
warlord, are less deniable. He and his followers took over a number of mountain
villages across the border with Dagestan, and declared them the embryo of a
north Caucasian Islamic state.

Mr Idigov declared Mr Basayev had acted as 'an individual'. 'The Russians do not
mention that military operations against Chechnya began long before, in mid-July
1999. Basayev's incursion was once again used by the Russians to pit Caucasian
brother nations against one another.'

Whatever the truth, President Maskhadov still represents his people. Mr Idigov
said: 'We have one weapon, and that is our sense of national identity. After
Stalin's deportations and two Russian onslaughts, nationhood is the only
guarantor of our survival. For the Russians this problem remains - our awareness
of our rights as a people. It will never be crushed.'

Mr Idigov returns to Chechnya this week, his case largely unheard.


LOAD-DATE: December 19, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              461 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      December 20, 1999, Monday Edition 1

In the good old summer time clouds start to grow -;
The new century dawned on a confident empire but soon, the Queen was dead and
things were changing In the last two weeks of this millennium, The Journal is
looking back over the events of this century which shook and shaped our world.
Today, Peter Woodman reviews 1900 to 1909 and the long Edwardian summer before
the ruin and destruction of the First World War.

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 44

LENGTH: 722 words


   The year 1900 saw Britain established as the greatest power in the world.
Queen Victoria had reigned for more than 60 years and presided over an empire
over which the sun never set.

The British navy was supreme and the industrial revolution had ushered in the
age of iron and steel. Everyone wanted British goods.

Aristocracy still reigned supreme, the worker knew his place and women were
still not allowed to vote. The hit song of 1900 was Only a Bird in a Gilded
Cage.

Yet amid the general bonhomie, a few sour notes were struck. The century dawned
with British troops trying to subdue an uprising by the Boers in South Africa.

Abroad, the first rumblings of discontent were being heard in Russia. In 1903
the King and Queen of Serbia were murdered in their bedroom and the Turks
butchered 50,000 people in Bulgaria. The same year, Britons danced to the hit
tune The Good Old Summer Time

For Britain, the 20th Century was first marked in January 1901 when Victoria
died at the age of 83. Most of the country could not remember any other monarch
than the tiny, determined Widow of Windsor.

Her son succeeded her and the Edwardian era began. The following year, as HG
Wells published The First Men in the Moon, final victory was achieved in South
Africa. In 1903, a Michigan businessman - Henry Ford - set up a motor company.

The same year, American brothers Wilbur and Orville Wright pioneered a form of
travel that was to revolutionise the century. They managed to complete the
world's first flight - staying airborne for all of 12 seconds on their first
effort at Kitty Hawk in North Carolina.

Six months later, in May 1904, Charles Rolls and Henry Royce joined forces to
create what would become the most famous car company in the world. Later that
summer the Russians completed the trans-Siberian railway - 4,607 miles of it, as
a threepence [just over 1p] rise in tobacco duty in the Budget caused uproar in
England.

Russia fought a brutal David versus Goliath war against Japan in 1905 - and lost
- causing unrest at home. Her navy revolted and when workers tried to petition
the Tsar in St Petersburg, they were fired on by troops and more than 500 were
killed. A month later- in February 1905 - the Tsar's uncle was blown up in a
terrorist attack.

Protests in Britain centred on the Suffragette [Votes for Women] movement. Women
began to be arrested, then sentenced, then jailed and then finally, when they
went on hunger strikes, force fed as they protested for their rights.

In February 1908 leader Emmeline Pankhurst, 50, wrote a moving account of her
harsh life in London's Holloway jail.

She was jailed again three years later, with daughter Christabel, after a
sensational trial in which Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George and
Home Secretary Henry Gladstone gave evidence on their behalf.

There had been a breakthrough for women of an altogether different kind when
American May Sutton became the first non-Briton to win a Wimbledon tennis title
when she captured the women's singles in 1905.

Three years later, London staged the Olympic Games and a tiny Frenchman, Dorando
Pietri, captured all hearts with his gallant failure to win the marathon. He
staggered and fell at the last and was finally disqualified for being helped
over the finishing line.

Pietri was to receive a special gold cup from Queen Alexandra for his efforts.
The big hit record of that year was Shine on Harvest Moon.

Two years earlier a devastating earthquake and subsequent fire practically
destroyed San Francisco.

In 1909, Louis Bleriot amazed Edwardian England by becoming the first person to
fly the Channel - completing the Calais to Dover crossing in 43 minutes and
winning a £1,000 prize offered by the Daily Mail.

A year earlier the highlight of the literary year was the publication of Kenneth
Grahame's The Wind in the Willows.

As the decade moved to a close, Ernest Rutherford won a Nobel Prize for
chemistry for his work on radioactivity and Ernest Shackleton strove to reach
the North Pole.

Pensions, of five shillings [25p] a week were available for people over 70 for
the first time; American Jack Johnson became the first black man to hold the
world heavyweight championship; a Royal Commission ruled no more children should
stay in workhouses.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Reach for the skies: Wilbur Wright flies over Huffman Prairie near
Deayton, Ohio.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              462 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 21, 1999, Tuesday

THEME FOR THE DAY

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 484 words


Quakers, who worship largely in silence, sometimes speak as if silence was good
in itself. But silence can be the cloak of ignoring someone, contempt,
loneliness - in total contrast to the rich silence of someone truly listening to
you, or the stillness of worship.

Newcomers to a Quaker Meeting sometimes find the quietness empty, oppressive, or
even threatening. But more often, even on a first visit, they sense something
very impressive in this group of people listening so deeply.

Three hundred years ago a Quaker wrote: "When I came into the silent assemblies
of God's people, I felt a secret power among them which touched my heart; and as
I gave way to it, I felt the evil weakening and the good raised up."

John Lampen

FROM THE PAST

200 YEARS AGO: The Rev Matthew Kemsey having been lately appointed second master
of Wolverhampton Grammar School begs leave to acquaint the public that his house
will be fitted up in a commodious manner after the Christmas vacation for the
reception of twelve boarders. French, German, drawing, writing and arithmetic
taught gratis.

Aris's Birmingham Gazette, December 1799.

100 YEARS AGO: The Princess Christian has promised to visit Leamington on Jan 17
for the purpose of opening the new wards of the Warneford Hospital.

The Birmingham Daily Post, December 1899.

50 YEARS AGO: Seven men were injured last night in an explosion which was
followed by a fire at the works of Durex Abrasives Ltd, abrasive paper and cloth
manufactures of Arden Road, Saltley, Birmingham.

They were taken to the accident and emergency hospital suffering from
superficial burns and shock. Five were detained.

The Birmingham Post, December 1949.

ON THIS DAY

Birthdays: American tennis champion Chris Evert, 45; American actress Jane
Fonda, 62; footballer Steve Perryman, 48; French rugby union player Walter
Spanghero, 56; jockey Greville Starkey, 60.

Anniversaries: 1620: Pilgrim Fathers in the Mayflower landed at Plymouth Rock in
North America; 1846: Anaesthetics used for the first time in Britain by Robert
Liston; 1879: First performance of Henrik Ibsen's A Doll's House at the Royal
Theatre in Copenhagen performed with specially revised happy ending to oblige
the leading lady; 1892: American golfer Walter Hagen; 1913: The New York World
printed the first crossword puzzle; 1958: Charles de Gaulle became President of
France; 1963: Death of cricketer Sir Jack Hobbs, 36; 1988: Terrorist bomb blows
up PanAm jumbo jet killing 281 over Scottish town Lockerbie; 1995: Prince of
Wales announced "his intention to remarry" after his divorce.

28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AX

Editorial: Tel 0121 236 3366. Fax: 0121 625 1105

THEME FOR THE DAY

Richard Guy Andrew Jones Dawn Sweeney

Newspaper Sales Display Advertising Classified Advertising

Dan Mason - Publisher/Editor

Michael Higgins - Deputy Editor

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              463 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 21, 1999, Tuesday

U.S. TERROR SUSPECT WAS HEADING HERE

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 219 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist arrested in America for possession of bomb-making
equipment was heading to Britain, it was revealed last night.

Ahmed Ressam, 32, an Algerian believed to be an agent of Islamic terror leader
Osama bin Laden, was booked on a British Airways flight to London.

He would have arrived at Heathrow last week. The arrest increased fears of a
terror attack in the UK over the millennium. And the CIA yesterday warned
Islamic terrorists could be planning up to 15 attacks around the world on New
Year's Eve.

US security adviser Sandy Berger said: "This is a period of heightened risk of
terrorist actions involving Americans."

Ressam's car contained 100lbs of explosives when he was arrested in Seattle
coming off a ferry from Canada last Tuesday.

He was quizzed after appearing nervous about why he was entering the country.

American officials are becoming increasingly worried about attacks.

A KLM flight for Amsterdam was forced to make an emergency landing in Boston
over the weekend after a bomb alert.

Seventy flights were also delayed in Los Angeles as police hunted a man acting
suspiciously.

Bin Laden, a Saudi exile who is hiding in Afghanistan, is wanted for the
American embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya last year.

Voice of Mirror - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              464 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 21, 1999, Tuesday

WORLD ALERT FOR NEW YEAR BOMBS

BYLINE: Andy Lines, Us Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 215 words


FEARS of a millennium terrorist attack in Britain mounted last night after a
suspected bomber arrested in America was revealed to be heading for London.

Ahmed Ressam, 32, an Algerian believed to be an agent of Islamic terror leader
Osama bin Laden, was booked on a British Airways flight to London.

He would have arrived at Heathrow last week. The news raised concern among
British security chiefs, particularly as the Queen and PM Tony Blair will be at
the Millennium Dome on New Year's Eve.

The CIA yesterday warned Islamic terrorists could be planning up to 15 attacks
around the world on millennium night.

US security adviser Sandy Berger said: "This is a period of heightened risk of
terrorist actions involving Americans."

Ressam's car contained 100lbs of explosives and bomb-making equipment when he
was arrested in Seattle last Tuesday.

American officials are becoming increasingly worried about attacks.

A KLM flight for Amsterdam was forced to make an emergency landing in Boston
over the weekend after a bomb alert.

Seventy flights were also delayed in Los Angeles as police hunted a man acting
suspiciously.

Bin Laden, a Saudi exile who is hiding in Afghanistan, is wanted for the
American embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya last year.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              465 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 21, 1999, Tuesday

UK FLIGHT OF 'TERROR SUSPECT'

BYLINE: Andy Lines

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


A SUSPECTED terrorist arrested in America for possession of bomb- making
equipment was heading to Britain, it was revealed last night.

Ahmed Ressam, 32, an Algerian believed to be an agent of Islamic terror leader
Osama bin Laden, was booked on a British Airways flight to London.

He would have arrived at Heathrow last week. The arrest increased fears of a
terror attack in the UK over the millennium.

And the CIA yesterday warned Islamic terrorists could be planning up to 15
attacks around the world on New Year's Eve.

US security adviser Sandy Berger said: "This is a period of heightened risk of
terrorist actions involving Americans."

Ressam's car contained 100lbs of explosives when he was arrested in Seattle last
Tuesday.

Bin Laden is wanted for the American embassy bombings in Tanzania and Kenya last
year.

Voice of Mirror - Page 6

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              466 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          December 22, 1999, Wednesday

JORDAN WANTS RETURN OF BIN LADEN GROUP SUSPECT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 254 words


Jordan is seeking the extradition from Britain of an alleged sponsor of an
extremist group linked to Osama bin Laden and accused of plotting Millennium
outrages.

"There are consultations with the British government for the hand-over of Omar
Abu Omar," said a Jordanian official.

Abu Omar (40) is suspected of financing the extremist cell that was arrested in
Jordan last week on suspicion of planning to attack US targets and tourist sites
in the kingdom during the Millennium celebrations.

The group comprises 12 Jordanians, one Iraqi and an Algerian.

The US government said the group is linked to Bin Laden, the Saudi multi-
millionaire extremist wanted for last year's bombing of the US embassies in
Kenya and Tanzania which killed 224 people. Jordanian officials have not said
the group is affiliated to Bin Laden, but they do say Abu Omar, also known as
Abu Kutadah, is close to the Saudi, who lives in Afghanistan.

The alleged leader of the group, Khalil Deek, a Jordanian, was extradited to
Amman last week from Pakistan.

l Spanish police foiled a Basque plot to detonate a massive car bomb in Madrid
over Christmas when they intercepted a van bound for the capital with a tonne of
bomb-making materials.

The van's driver was arrested in the operation near Calatayud in North- east
Zaragoza, the Interior Ministry said.

A highway patrol had stopped the van for a traffic offence, and found a crate
containing 1,980lb of a chlorine compound used in explosives and 110lb of
dynamite.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              467 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 22, 1999

HUGE SECURITY CLAMP IN DOME TERROR ALERT

BYLINE: BY JOHN COLES

LENGTH: 449 words


ONE of the biggest security operations in history will protect the Millennium
Dome on New Year's Eve amid warnings of a major terrorist threat.

Intelligence agencies fear that a variety of extremists, led by Islamic
fundamentalists, will try to strike during the party of the century.

The most important public figures in Britain, led by the Queen and the Prime
Minister, will be among 10,000 revellers inside the Dome as 2000 dawns. Final
preparations are now being made to protect the festivities, which will be
televised to up to 14 billion people worldwide, from possible attack by land,
air or water.

The Dome and surrounding area will be placed under the highest security alert of
Bikini Red on New Year's Eve, which is issued only after reliable information
that a terror attack is likely.

That state will last from midnight on December 30 until 0600 on January 1 when
it will revert back to Bikini Amber, which is still a high state of alert. The
alarm follows the capture of an Algerian terrorist who tried to smuggle 55kg of
high explosives into the US from Canada. The US is also on maximum alert over
the possibility of Islamic terrorists seeking revenge for cruise missile attacks
on Sudan and Afghanistan.

The UK is seen by Islamic terrorists as America's main military ally and the CIA
has shared intelligence with MI5 and MI6 which indicates that London may also be
a target on New Year's Eve. The Real IRA, animal rights extremists, and militant
anti-capitalist groups are also among those who could cause chaos.

A huge security ring will be thrown around the Dome. An outer ring 2,000 metres
from the site, and covering both sides of the Thames, will act as the first line
of defence. An inner cordon 500 metres from the Dome will act as a second line.

Finally, a tight ring around the perimeter of the Dome itself will prevent any
unauthorised access. Armed police and bomb disposal experts will operate within
the zone and SAS units will be on standby at a nearby military establishment.

One senior security source said yesterday: "The arrangements should stop an
attack from the land, the river or the air. The area around the Dome will be one
of the safest in Britain on New Year's Eve." However, a scheme to issue security
wristbands to residents living around the Dome has been plagued with problems.
Greenwich Council has issued 18,000 bands to allow bona fide residents into the
security zone.But it admitted yesterday a black market has sprung up with bands
swapping hands for cash in pubs and restaurants. Residents have complained the
phone system being used to issue the tags has been a disaster with wrong numbers
being printed.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 1999 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              468 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          December 23, 1999, Thursday

SECURITY SCALE DOWN;
 PROVINCE MOVES OUT OF 'WAR FOOTING'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


AT LEAST 1,800 more troops could be withdrawn from Northern Ireland with an
improving security situation, the Government announced last night.

Secretary of State Peter Mandelson also revealed plans to close two police
interrogation centres and the introduction of new anti-terrorist legislation
fully consistent with human rights obligations.

Provided that there was no fresh outbreak of terrorist violence, fortifications
in police stations are to be scaled down and town centre anti -car bomb barriers
removed.

Even though police and military chiefs still fear attacks by republican and
loyalist dissidents opposed to the peace process, the measures will be
introduced once the security climate is right.

The three Army battalions on six-month temporary postings might be progressively
withdrawn as part of the scaling down, according to the Government's strategy
for future security in the Province.

That would mean at least another 1,800 soldiers pulling out. The 15,000 troop
level this Christmas will be the lowest in nearly 30 years and half of what it
once was at the height of the Troubles.

Gough Barracks in Armagh and Strand Road detention centre in Londonderry will
also go, and there will be a review of the use of plastic bullets, which have
claimed the lives of 17 people.

The proposed measures are included in the security review ordered under the Good
Friday Agreement.

Mr Mandelson said the Government was "fully committed" to normalising security
arrangements and practices as soon as the current threat allowed.

"That is the balance we must and will achieve," the Secretary of State added.

The measures were immediately rejected by Sinn Fein as inadequate, but Ulster
Unionists gave them a cautious welcome after First Minister David Trimble and MP
Ken Maginnis met Mr Mandelson.

Mr Maginnis said he was reassured the possible changes were predicted on the
security situation, which would be a matter for the RUC Chief Constable to
judge.

But Gerry Kelly, Sinn Fein Assembly member, claimed: "There is no time table, no
detail, no substance. We do not need intentions. We need action on
demilitarisation."

The main measures in the review are:

three battalions of troops on temporary duty to be recalled permanently to
Britain

interrogation centres at Gough Barracks in Armagh and Strand Road, Londonderry,
are to close "as soon as practicable". Castlereagh, in east Belfast, is shutting
as well

new UK-wide counter-terrorist legislation, consistent with human rights
obligations, to replace emergency powers

the use of plastic bullets as an anti-riot measure to be reviewed

reduced military support for police on patrol and reduction in Army operations,
such as vehicle checkpoints, searches, helicopter manoeuvres

security barriers in up to 20 town and city centres are also to go

public access to police stations and public buildings to be improved and
protective fencing to be "progressively removed".

the high security Maze Prison, near Lisburn, to close next year.

The Government strategy document said that if the terrorist threat continues to
diminish and eventually ends, then normal policing will be established with an
end to special security measures.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              469 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                          December 23, 1999, Thursday

MORE TROOPS TO PULL OUT OF ULSTER AS SECURITY EASES

BYLINE: Dan Mcginn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 629 words


At least 1,800 more troops could be withdrawn from Northern Ireland as security
improves, the Government announced last night.

Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson also revealed plans to close two
police interrogation centres and the introduction of new anti-terrorist
legislation fully consistent with human rights obligations.

Provided that there was no fresh outbreak of terrorist violence, fortifications
in police stations are to be scaled down and town centre anti -car bomb barriers
removed.

Even though police and military chiefs still fear attacks by republican and
loyalist dissidents opposed to the peace process, the measures will be
introduced once the security climate is right.

The three army battalions on six-month temporary postings might be progressively
withdrawn as part of the scaling down, according to the Government's strategy
for future security in the province.

That would mean at least another 1,800 soldiers pulling out. The 15,000 troop
level this Christmas will be the lowest in nearly 30 years and half of what it
once was at the height of the troubles in Northern Ireland.

Gough Barracks in Armagh city and Strand Road detention centre in Londonderry
will also go, and there will be a review of the use of plastic bullets which
have claimed the lives of 17 people.

The proposed measures are included in the security review ordered under the
terms of the Good Friday Agreement.

Mr Mandelson said the Government was "fully committed" to normalising security
arrangements and practices as soon as the current threat allowed.

"That is the balance we must and will achieve," the Northern Ireland Secretary
added.

The measures were immediately rejected by Sinn Fein as inadequate, but Ulster
Unionists gave them a cautious welcome after First Minister David Trimble and MP
Ken Maginnis met Mr Mandelson.

Mr Maginnis said he was reassured the possible changes were predicted on the
security situation which would be a matter for the RUC Chief Constable to judge.

But Mr Gerry Kelly, a Sinn Fein member at the Stormont Assembly, claimed: "There
is no time table, no detail, no substance. We do not need intentions. We need
action on demilitarisation."

Republicans have identified demilitarisation as a key confidence building
measure in the peace process, but it is clear that if there is to be any chance
of movement on IRA disarmament, then the Government will have to outline a
specific timetable.

The main measures in the review:

Three battalions of troops on temporary duty to be recalled permanently to
Britain.

Interrogation centres at Gough Barracks in Armagh City and Strand Road,
Londonderry, are to close "as soon as practicable". Castlereagh in east Belfast
is shutting as well.

New UK-wide counter-terrorist legislation, consistent with human rights
obligations, to replace emergency powers.

The use of plastic bullets as an anti-riot measure to be reviewed.

Reduced military support for police on patrol and reduction in Army operations,
such as vehicle checkpoints, searches, helicopter manoeuvres.

Security barriers in up to 20 town and city centres are also to go.

Public access to police stations and public buildings to be improved and
protective fencing to be "progressively removed".

The high security Maze Prison, near Lisburn, Co Antrim, to close next year.

Meanwhile, it emerged yesterday that every terrorist prisoner in the Maze is
being freed tomorrow to spend Christmas and the Millennium with their families.

Mr Mandelson decreed that all terrorists serving sentences should be let out for
12 days in recognition of the "remarkable political progress" which had been
made over recent weeks and as a "confidence building measure".

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Action: Gerry Kelly. Committed: Peter Mandelson.

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              470 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 23, 1999

Maze exodus follows festive gesture

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 862 words


Every convicted terrorist prisoner in Northern Ireland's top security Maze
prison is being freed tomorrow to spend Christmas and the millennium with their
families.

Northern Ireland Secretary Peter Mandelson decreed that all terrorists serving
sentences should be let out for 12 days in recognition of the "remarkable
political progress" which had been made over recent weeks and as a "confidence
building measure".

More than 330 prisoners will be freed for 12 days.

The only terrorist prisoners left in the jail during the extended holiday will
be five Loyalist Volunteer Force members on remand awaiting trial.

They will be guarded by a "skeleton" staff of 50 prison officers, said the
Prison Service. The prison is due to close next year.

At the same time, Mr Mandelson had talks with Portadown Orange Order leaders in
a bid to resolve the long-running Drumcree parade stand-off.

He travelled to Portadown for a 50-minute meeting with Orange Order District
Master Harold Gracey in a caravan at Drumcree.

Also at the discussions was the Church of Ireland rector of Drumcree Parish
Church, the Rev John Pickering.

The prisoners parole prompted a furious reaction from hardline unionist
politicians and the families of victims of terrorism.

However, Sinn Fein President Gerry Adams played down the decision. He said that
while it should be welcomed it should not be over-played.

''I don't want to be begrudging, neither do I think Peter Mandelson needs to be
trumpeting this," he said.

Mr Mandelson also announced that at least 1800 more troops could be withdrawn
from Northern Ireland with an improving security situation.

There were also plans to close two police interrogation centres and introduce
anti-terrorist legislation fully consistent with human rights obligations.

Provided that there was no fresh outbreak of terrorist violence, fortifications
in police stations are to be scaled down and town centre anti -car bomb barriers
removed.

The three army battalions on six-month temporary postings might be progressively
withdrawn as part of the scaling down, according to the Government's strategy
for future security in the province.

That would mean at least another 1800 soldiers pulling out.

Gough Barracks in Armagh city, and Strand Road detention centre in Londonderry,
will also go, and there will be a review of the use of plastic bullets - which
have claimed the lives of 17 people.

The proposed measures are included in the security review ordered under the
terms of the Good Friday Agreement.

Mr Mandelson said 139 prisoners were being released from the Maze - eight more
than eligible for the annual parole - and made it clear it was a decision he had
taken to help copper-fasten the peace process.

He pointed out the eight added to the release list would all have been eligible
for parole in a short time.

They include James McCardle, jailed for his part in the Docklands bomb; Shankill
Road chip shop bomber Sean Kelly and leading loyalist Michael Stone, who was
jailed for the gun and grenade attack which killed three mourners at the funeral
of the three IRA members shot dead by the SAS in Gibraltar in 1988.

Mr Mandelson said he was very conscious of the memories of victims or their
loved one's, but he was "committed to doing all in my power to ensure that the
permanent peace which is their just tribute and memorial is brought about".

However, an umbrella victims group - Families Acting for Innocent Relatives -
was critical of the releases.

Spokesman Willie Frazer said: "Here we have people who have been responsible for
murder, intimidation and torture and they are going to be allowed out of prison
and to sit down at the dinner table this Christmas with the turkey and their
families, while we have empty spaces at our tables.

"It only creates the impression that the only people being left out in the cold
are victims."

Meanwhile, Government proposals to allow Sinn Fein MPs Gerry Adams and Martin
McGuinness to use the House of Commons without taking the oath of loyalty to the
Queen will have to go before MPs for debate, according to Speaker Betty
Boothroyd.

She made it clear members, not just Ministers, would have to decide, in a letter
to the Democratic Unionist Party leader, the Rev Ian Paisley, who has been
critical of the Sinn Fein leaders being allowed to use Commons facilities
without taking their seats.

Mr Paisley said today that it was quite clear Mrs Boothroyd had not changed her
opposition to the plan since she first fought it in 1997.

"She took her stand advised by the clerks of the House and their advice to her
was absolutely correct because it was vindicated in the highest court that
Britain can go to - the European Court," said Mr Paisley.

He added: "It is quite evident she is very disturbed to find herself being
undercut by the Government.

Former Prime Minister John Major, who has backed Mr Tony Blair in his peace
process moves, declared yesterday that he would oppose letting Mr Adams and
McGuinness use the House without taking the oath.

He said it was a step too far.

Leader comment Page 14

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A tight grip on peace: Peter Mandelson is greeted by the Rev John
Pickering during a visit to Drumcree to meet a delegation of Orangemen Picture:
PAUL FAITH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 1999 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              471 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           December 24, 1999, Friday

POLITICAL LEADERS TO REFLECT ON VICTIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280 words


POLITICAL leaders from Britain, Ireland and the US will remember the victims of
the Troubles this morning in a radio broadcast on both sides of the border and
of the Atlantic.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President Bill Clinton join Irish President
Mary McAleese, Taoiseach Bertie Ahern and Northern Ireland First Minister David
Trimble to contribute personal reflections of some of the 3,637 deaths.

The 30-minute programme is to be heard simultaneously on BBC Northern Ireland
and RTE as well as on a New York radio station.

Linked to a recently published book, it has been prepared to coincide with
Christmas, the millennium and the improved politicial situation.

One of the most poignant contributions came from Mr Trimble, who was clearly
close to tears as he looked back to the 1994 murder of a man who worked as a
cleaner at the RUC station in Lurgan.

Fredrick Anthony was killed when his car was blown up - his wife and two
children were injured.

President Clinton has concentrated in his contribution on the Real IRA bomb
attack on Omagh in August last year, when 29 people died and more than 200 were
injured.

Mr Clinton, who visited Omagh with Mr Blair two weeks after the bombing, focuses
on the fate of Avril Monaghan, the mother of four who was pregnant with twins at
the time of the attack.

Mr Blair talks about the three young Quinn brothers of Ballymoney who died in a
loyalist petrol bombing of their home a month before the Omagh blast.

Mr Ahern speaks of the 1974 Dublin-Monaghan bombings when 33 people died.

Belfast-born President McAleese recalls the murder of a Protestant friend by a
man her family knew well.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Century Newspapers Limited

                              472 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 24, 1999, Friday

ISLAM TERROR GROUP PARCEL BOMB ALERT

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 361 words


POLICE today warned the public to be on their guard amid fears that Islamic
terror groups may have sent parcel bombs to Britain in the run up to Christmas
and the millennium.

The warning follows arrests abroad of suspected Islamic militants planning
possible high-profile attacks and the leak of a secret FBI report that said
between five and 15 operations were planned on cities worldwide.

American officials reportedly named London as one of the targets, although
senior police officers in the capital said there was no indication of a
terrorist plot.

But Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch at
Scotland Yard, urged people to be vigilant.

He said: "There may be groups or individuals who may try to disrupt the
celebrations and people should be on their guard against any suspect packages or
anyone acting suspiciously.

"Recent arrests in Jordan and the USA have heightened the public's awareness of
a possible threat from Islamic extremist groups.

Encourage

"The public are our eyes and ears and we would encourage them in the run-up to
Christmas and the millennium to be vigilant and to contact police if they notice
anything suspicious."

The authorities in the States believe that terrorists linked to Saudi dissident
Osama bin Laden may try to create havoc around New Year.

Washington has also issued a warning to all Americans overseas of possible
attacks.

Fourteen members of an extremist cell were arrested in Jordan last week on
suspicion of plotting to attack US targets and tourist sites there during the
millennium celebrations.

Jordan is seeking the extradition from Britain of Omar Abu Omar, an alleged
sponsor of the group, who this week denied he was involved with them.

He also denied he was linked to bin Laden, who has declared war on Americans and
is wanted for last year's bombing of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania
which killed 224 people.

He arrived in Britain in 1993 as a political refugee and said he had been
teaching Islamic theology.

Last year a Jordanian court sentenced him in his absence to life in prison for a
series of explosions.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              473 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 24, 1999

TERRORISM THREAT MARS CELEBRATIONS

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 374 words



THE threat of a terrorist strike worldwide by Islamic extremists to mark the
millennium has prompted a fresh police call to revellers for vigilance.

The warning follows arrests abroad of suspected Islamic militants planning
possible high-profile attacks and the leak of a secret FBI report that said
between five and 15 operations were planned on cities worldwide.

American officials reportedly named London as one of the targets although senior
police officers in the capital said there was no indication of a terrorist plot.

But Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch at
Scotland Yard, today urged people to be vigilant.

He said: "There may be groups or individuals who may try to disrupt the
celebrations and people should be on their guard against any suspect packages or
anyone acting suspiciously."

The authorities in the States believe that terrorists linked to Saudi dissident
Osama bin Laden may try to create havoc around New Year.

Washington has also issued a warning to all Americans overseas because of
possible attacks.

Fourteen members of an extremist cell were arrested in Jordan last week on
suspicion of plotting to attack US targets and tourist sites there during the
millennium celebrations.

Jordan is seeking the extradition from Britain of Omar Abu Omar, an alleged
sponsor of the group, who this week denied that he was involved with them.

He also denied he was linked to bin Laden, who has declared war on Americans and
is wanted for last year's bombing of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania
which killed 224 people.

He arrived in Britain in 1993 as a political refugee and said he had been
teaching Islamic theology. Last year, a Jordanian court sentenced him in
absentia to life in prison for a series of explosions.

An Algerian was also arrested last week in the state of Washington after
allegedly taking a car full of explosives from Canada to the US.

The man had reservations to fly from Seattle to New York then to London, where
he was thought most likely to be meeting contacts of an Islamic terrorist group.

Doubts have been expressed that London is likely to be a target because it is
used by Islamic organisations as a base.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 1999 Bristol United Press

                              474 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 24, 1999, Friday

PARCEL BOMBS TERROR THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 181 words


POLICE today repeated warnings for the public to be on their guard amid fears
that Islamic terror groups may have sent parcel bombs to Britain.

It follows arrests abroad of suspected Islamic militants planning possible
high-profile attacks and the leak of a secret FBI report that said between five
and 15 operations were planned on cities worldwide.

American officials reportedly named London as one of the targets although senior
police officers in the capital said there was no indication of a terrorist plot.

But Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch at
Scotland Yard, said: "There may be groups or individuals who may try to disrupt
the celebrations and people should be on their guard against any suspect
packages or anyone acting suspiciously.

"The public are our eyes and ears and we would encourage them to be vigilant."

Scotland Yard is urging people to check for unexpected packages when returning
from holiday or reopening businesses and to call 999 if they got an unusual
parcel, especially from mainland Europe.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 1999 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              475 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 24, 1999

UK on alert after FBI parcel bomb warning

BYLINE: William Lowther

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 633 words


BRITAIN was on the alert for parcel bombs last night following warnings from
U.S.intelligence.

Terrorists based in Frankfurt are reported to be targeting victims in the UK and
America over the holiday period.

The warning originated from the FBI and the Federal Aviation Administration.

The nationality of the terrorists is not known but experts pointed the finger at
Islamic fundamentalists.

'The public should be cautious with parcels originating from or bearing
Frankfurt, Germany, postal markings or stamps when the sender is unknown or
unfamiliar to the recipient, ' said a statement issued last night by the U.S.

Post Office.

Dr Brian Martin, a terrorist expert at the Washington-based Centre for Security
Studies, said: 'The intelligence information is of a general nature but must be
taken very seriously.

We understand that a group in Frankfurt probably connected to the Islamic
fundamentalist movement is sending letter bombs to people in the U.S. and
Britain.

Britain and the U.S. are perceived to share the same policies and to follow the
same line which is why they are at the top of the hate list for these
terrorists.' British and U.S. planes continue to strike targets in Iraq on an
almost daily basis and Tony Blair supports the White House policies aimed at
capturing Saudi millionaire Osama bin Laden who still finances terrorists from a
hideout in Afghanistan. The U.S. Postal Service is now screening all mail from
Frankfurt amid fears that the terrorists could take advantage of possible
high-tech confusion related to the Millennium Bug.

In a statement yesterday the FBI said it was alerting the public 'out of an
abundance of caution'.

No details were given on the underlying intelligence but such warnings are
sometimes issued after a suspicious package is intercepted.

The United States has tightened security at airports and border crossings since
the arrest last week of an Algerian accused of trying to smuggle explosives into
Washington state.

Ahmed Ressam, 32, pleaded not guilty on Wednesday to five charges stemming from
his arrest on December 14 after arriving by ferry from Vancouver, British
Columbia.

Another Algerian national and a Canadian woman were arrested last Sunday at a
border crossing after a dog found traces of what may have been explosives in
their car.

A magistrate said he was trying to decide whether he was dealing with immigrant
smuggling or 'something a lot of more serious with international implications'.

President Bill Clinton said on Wednesday that the U.S. was taking 'extraordinary
measures' to thwart terrorist attacks at home and abroad during the holidays.

'We know that at the Millennium, a lot of people who may even be a little crazy
by our standards, or may have a political point to make, may try to take
advantage of it,' he said.

'So we are on a heightened state of alert. No one can guarantee that nothing
will happen. But all I can say is we're working very hard.' Senior police
officers in Britain said there was no indication of a terrorist plot but Deputy
Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of Scotland Yard's antiterrorist branch,
urged vigilance.

'There may be groups or individuals who may try to disrupt the celebrations and
people should be on their guard against any suspect packages or anyone acting
suspiciously, ' he said.

'Recent arrests in Jordan and the U.S. have heightened the public's awareness of
a possible threat from Islamic extremist groups.

Frankfurt police spokesman Manfred Feist said the FBI warning had triggered a
range of security measures in Germany's fifth-largest city and one of its most
cosmopolitan.

Once home to a major U.S. military presence, foreigners make up about a third of
its 650,000 inhabitants.


LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: OSAMA BIN LADEN: HIDEOUT

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 1999 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              476 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                               December 24, 1999

Police renew terrorist alert

SECTION: News: 999, Pg.8

LENGTH: 573 words


POLICE today repeated warnings for the public to be on their guard amid fears
that Islamic terror groups may have sent parcel bombs to Britain in the run-up
to Christmas and the millennium.

The warning follows arrests abroad of suspected Islamic militants planning
possible high-profile attacks and the leak of a secret FBI report that said
between five and 15 operations were planned on cities worldwide.

American officials reportedly named London as one of the targets although senior
police officers in the capital said there was no indication of a terrorist plot.

But Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch at
Scotland Yard, urged people to be vigilant.

He said: "There may be groups or individuals who may try to disrupt the
celebrations and people should be on their guard against any suspect packages or
anyone acting suspiciously.

"Recent arrests in Jordan and the USA have heightened the public's awareness of
a possible threat from Islamic extremist groups.

"The public are our eyes and ears and we would encourage them in the run-up to
Christmas and the millennium to be vigilant and to contact police if they notice
anything suspicious."

The authorities in the States believe that terrorists linked to Saudi dissident
Osama bin Laden may try to create havoc around New Year.

Washington has also issued a warning to all Americans overseas of possible
attacks.

Fourteen members of an extremist cell were arrested in Jordan last week on
suspicion of plotting to attack US targets and tourist sites there during the
millennium celebrations.

Jordan is seeking the extradition from Britain of Omar Abu Omar, an alleged
sponsor of the group, who this week denied he was involved with them.

He also denied he was linked to bin Laden, who has declared war on Americans and
is wanted for last year's bombing of the US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania
which killed 224 people.

He arrived in Britain in 1993 as a political refugee and said he had been
teaching Islamic theology.

Last year a Jordanian court sentenced him in absentia to life in prison for a
series of explosions, including one in the car park of an Amman hotel.

An Algerian was also arrested last week in the state of Washington after
allegedly taking a car full of explosives from Canada to the US.

The man had reservations to fly from Seattle to New York then to London, where
he was thought most likely to be meeting contacts of an Islamic terrorist group.

Doubts have been expressed that London is likely to be a target because it is
used by Islamic organisations as a base.

Planned legislation announced in the Queen's Speech could be used against
dissidents involved in plotting overseas operations from Britain.

There will be a huge police operation for the millennium celebrations with leave
cancelled for all Metropolitan police officers and measures in place to counter
a possible terrorist threat.

Last month police sources revealed that Britain was on its highest state of
alert since the Omagh bomb because of a threat from dissident Irish republican
groups.

Scotland Yard is urging anyone to call 999 if they see a suspicious package or
receive a suspicious phone call in the run-up to the festivities.

They also urged people to check for unexpected packages when returning from
holiday or re-opening businesses and to call 999 if they got an unusual parcel,
especially from mainland Europe.$

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 1999 The Gloucester Citizen

                              477 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 24, 1999, Friday

TRIBUTE TO 3,637 DEAD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 125 words


POLITICAL leaders from Britain, Ireland and the US will today remember the
victims of the Troubles.

Prime Minister Tony Blair and US President Bill Clinton are to join Irish
President Mary McAleese and Taoiseach Bertie Ahern in personal reflections on
some of the 3,637 deaths.

The 30-minute radio programme is scheduled to be heard simultaneously on BBC
Northern Ireland and RTE - as well as on a New York radio station.

Linked to a recently published book, the programme aspires to mark peace for the
millennium.

President Clinton reflects on the Real IRA bomb attack on Omagh, when 29 people
died.

Others involved in the broadcast include US Senator George Mitchell, David
Trimble, John Hume, Gerry Adams and David Ervine.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 1999 MGN Ltd.

                              478 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           December 24, 1999, Friday

FBI warns of parcel bomb risk for Britain

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre in Washington

SECTION: Overseas news

LENGTH: 548 words


THE United States Postal Service began screening mail from Frankfurt, Germany,
yesterday amid warnings that parcel bombs might be sent from there to the United
States and Britain.

The FBI said it had "unsubstantiated information" that one or more people "may
be planning to send bombs in small parcels" to the United States, and US postal
authorities said the alert also applied to parcels posted to Britain.

"The Postal Inspection Service received information from the FBI and the Federal
Aviation Administration about the possibility of mail bombs being sent to
addresses in the United States and the United Kingdom," Postal Inspector Dan
Mihalko said.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the anti-terrorist branch at
Scotland Yard, urged people to be vigilant. He said: "There may be groups or
individuals who may try to disrupt the (millennium) celebrations and people
should be on their guard against any suspect packages or anyone acting
suspiciously."

The warnings came after Ahmed Ressam, a suspected Algerian bomber, was charged
with trying to smuggle nitroglycerine and other bomb-making materials into
Washington State from Canada.

US officials have issued warnings of possible attacks on Americans overseas, and
earlier this week they received an uncorroborated report from foreign
intelligence sources suggesting that Washington, New York and Seattle have been
targeted for terrorist attacks.

"We are taking extraordinary measures in the Government to act, based on the
incident out in the Pacific North West," Mr Clinton said. But the President also
tried to calm public fears, and warned against adopting a siege mentality as
tension rises with the approach of the millennium.

"My advice to the American people would be to go on about their business... but
to be a little more aware of people and places," he said. "I wouldn't just
hunker down until it was all over."

The FBI is hunting for up to three people with links to Mr Ressam who are
believed to be in the United States. Officials are also investigating possible
ties between the Algerian and the organisation headed by the alleged terrorist
mastermind Osama bin Laden.

Suspected terrorists arrested in Jordan last week have also been linked to the
network run by bin Laden, a Saudi exile who is accused of organising the bombing
of two United States embassies in Africa last year.

"We have reliable information that bin Laden is in frequent contact with
terrorists," James Foley, the State Department spokesman, said. "We have
information that leads us to conclude that terrorists may be planning attacks
around the world."

The warnings came as federal prosecutors disclosed that a woman arrested on
Sunday at the Vermont-Canadian border has links to the Algerian Islamic League,
an international group believed to have sponsored terrorist activities in Europe
and Algeria. Lucia Garofalo, a Canadian citizen, was arrested along with
Bouabide Chamchi, an Algerian, at a remote border crossing in northeastern
Vermont.

William Cohen, the Defence Secretary, said that US security agencies were
working with America's allies to combat unnamed groups "that seem to be
determined to ruin the holiday if they can and kill Americans and others if they
can".


LOAD-DATE: December 24, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              479 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                           December 26, 1999, Sunday

Or is it doom and boom?

BYLINE: Dipesh Gadher

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 749 words


Should the doom mongers be right, the millennium bug will cause aircraft to fall
out of the skies, bank accounts to be erased overnight, a telecommunications
network failure and serious food shortages. One American economist has forecast
a 70% chance of a global recession; other pessimists, predicting "millennium
meltdown", have already fled to remote parts of Scotland and Wales.

The reality, of course, is almost certain to be less apocalyptic, but the
government and many businesses are taking no chances. In what is described as
the biggest operation since the second world war, police leave has been
cancelled over the millennium period, fire services have been put on a high
state of readiness and thousands of soldiers are on 10-minute stand-by to tackle
any serious incidents. Even the SAS has been drafted in to deal with potential
outbreaks of civil disorder and the collapse of utilities. Under secret plans,
codenamed Operation Surety, troops will be deployed to protect government sites
and other strategic points, such as airports, considered to be vulnerable to
terrorist attack if their security systems fail.

While Tony Blair sips champagne with the Queen at the dome, 200 civil servants
will be frantically monitoring the impact of the Y2K phenomenon on the nation's
infrastructure from a dedicated millennium centre. The Foreign Office will also
study reports from countries whose computers have already rolled into 2000 to
discover what problems we are likely to face and a special unit at Scotland Yard
will be monitoring the threat posed by potential millennium doomsday cults who
are predicting Armageddon and may resort to violent means to hasten the Second
Coming of Christ.

But Gwynneth Flower, managing director of Action 2000, was sounding an
optimistic note last week. "The United Kingdom has probably the most
comprehensive and robust programme addressing the threat of the millennium bug
and we are confident that there will be no significant bug-

related problems," she said.

But others are not so sure. John Fenna, a 42-year-old outdoor skills instructor,
from Pembrokeshire, has turned his van into a mobile survival unit stocked with
food and fuel and is ready to bolt to the Preseli hills with his canoe should
millennium disaster strike.

He is not alone. Manufacturers of survival kit have reported a huge increase in
sales of everything from edible candles to SAS training videos. One worried
religious group plans to spend New Year's Eve in a 24-hour prayer marathon
inside a garden shed in Tufnell Park, north London. The Share International
group believes a messiah known as Maitreya - "the happy one" in Sanskrit - is
living in the capital and ready to emerge within weeks.

Businesses are taking a more practical view. Having invested an estimated Pounds
20billion during the past three years in tackling the bug, they are quietly
confident. High street banks say customers need not clear out their accounts and
hoard their cash because transactions are downloaded separately on a daily
basis, making it possible to reconstruct a day's work with relative ease in the
event of a computer failure.

"It will be business as usual - and you won't find your overdraft or credit card
bill wiped out overnight," said Tim Sweeney of the British Bankers' Association.
He also suggested that the extra Pounds 20billion in circulation over Christmas
and the new year would safeguard against cash machines running out of money.

In another potential field of concern, the Civil Aviation Authority is satisfied
with an independent audit of the national air traffic control system and has
received assurances of millennium compliance from all the airlines that intend
to fly on New Year's Eve; British Airways intends to run 16 long-haul flights at
the crucial time.

Mobile phone companies claim that it will be the sheer volume of customers
trying to connect with friends and family after midnight next weekend that will
provide them with their biggest headache, not the bug.

Robin Guenier, head of Taskforce 2000, an independent millennium bug watchdog,
is more sceptical. While acknowledging that Britain is more prepared for the
millennium than most countries, he argues that only 5% of potential bug related
problems will become evident on January 1. "I don't think we are out of the
woods until next June," he said. "If something does go wrong, it won't be an
apocalypse. It will be death by a thousand cuts."


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Millennium

                    Copyright 1999 Times Newspapers Limited

                              480 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           December 28, 1999, Tuesday

THIS WAS 1999 . . .

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 856 words


APRIL

Britain's first war crimes trial ended with Anthony Sawoniuk, 78, being
sentenced to two life sentences for the murder of 18 Jews during World War Two.

Former EastEnder Martine McCutcheon started her post-soap career in style by
shooting straight to number one with her debut single, Perfect Moment.

A couple who wed as strangers, after being brought together by a Birmingham
radio station, admitted their two-month marriage was over. Greg Cordell, 28, and
Carla Germaine, 23, said they had "no regrets" and blamed media intrusion.

Slightly happier were Mike Gambrill, 46, and Barbara Cole, 43, who got married
in the middle of running the London Marathon. The couple, who wore wedding
outfits specially designed by Jeff Banks, were married by a registrar during the
course.

Unemployed Edgar Pearce, 61, admitted being the Mardi Gras bomber, who had waged
a reign of terror when he left home-made devices outside supermarkets and banks.
He was jailed for 21 years.

Twelve pupils and a teacher were shot dead when two teenagers ran amok with guns
and grenades in Columbine High School in Denver, Colorado. The two were said to
have carried out the attack to mark the anniversary of the birth of Adolf
Hitler.

Crimewatch presenter Jill Dando was murdered on the doorstep of her home in west
London. She had been shot through the head in an apparent contract-style
killing. The 37-year-old was preparing to marry gynaecologist Alan Farthing in
September. Her murder remains unsolved.

A pregnant woman was among three people who died in a nail bomb attack on a gay
pub in Soho, central London. It followed two similar attacks in Brixton and
Brick Lane which injured scores more. A man has been charged.

MAY

The frozen body of British climber George Mallory was discovered 75 years after
he disappeared near the summit of Mount Everest - but it still did not solve the
question of whether he had been the first to reach the top.

BA stewardess Andrea O'Neill caused a stir when she ran round a plane on the
Tarmac in Genoa in little more than her underwear after losing a bet with the
pilot that he would land ahead of schedule.

Nato planes on bombing raids in Belgrade mistakenly bombed the Chinese Embassy,
killing four people and injuring another 20, sparking protests at the British
and American Ambassadors' residences in Beijing.

Actor and writer Sir Dirk Bogarde died of a heart attack at the age of 78.

Brazilian model Luciana Morad who claimed to have had an affair with Rolling
Stone Mick Jagger, gave birth to a boy she called Lucas. Tests later proved that
the 55-year-old rocker was the father.

The funeral of TV golden girl Jill Dando was held in her native Weston-super
-Mare. Mourners were told "a loving, beautiful light" had been extinguished.

Dallaglio insisted he had told "foolish and naive" lies to impress reporters
pretending to offer him a sponsorship deal.

Manchester United won football's treble. The Premiership champions beat
Newcastle United to win the FA Cup followed by a 2-1 victory over Bayern -Munich
to lift the European Cup. They were the first British club to win the European
title in 15 years.

There was a storm of protest after a photograph of DJ Chris Tarrant lifting up
Sophie Rhys-Jones's top was published by The Sun. DJ Kara Noble who sold the
ten-year-old holiday snap, was sacked by her radio station.

JUNE

Former Conservative Cabinet minister Jonathan Aitken was sentenced to 18 months
in jail for lying to the High Court during an unsuccessful libel case in 1997
about who paid for a weekend he spent at the Paris Ritz.

Peace in Kosovo was sealed when Nato leaders and the Kosovo Liberation Army
signed an accord ending the rebel fighters' role as a military force.

Holidaymakers were forced to queue up for hours for new passports after problems
with a new computer system caused a massive backlog.

Alex Ferguson, manager of Manchester United, was rewarded with a knighthood in
the Queen's Birthday Honours List for masterminding the team's spectacular
treble - the Premiership, the FA Cup and the European Cup.

Screaming Lord Sutch, leader of the Official Monster Raving Loony Party,
committed suicide after a long battle with depression.

Cardinal Basil Hume, head of the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales,
died of cancer. He was laid to rest at Westminster Cathedral following a funeral
mass attended by thousands of mourners.

Only Fools and Horses star Buster Merryfield, who was known to millions as Uncle
Albert in the BBC1 series, died aged 78.

Prince Edward and Sophie Rhys-Jones became the Earl and Countess of Wessex as
they married at the historic St George's Chapel at Windsor. The official royal
wedding photograph was digitally altered because Prince William did not look
happy enough.

The month ended on an intriguing note when Welsh actress Catherine Zeta Jones
and Hollywood star Michael Douglas were pictured in a passionate clinch on
holiday in Majorca. The couple later went public with their romance when they
turned up together at a film premiere in Edinburgh.

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 1999 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              481 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 1999

Bomb threat fails to stop big race;
Public evacuated but police search for Kempton Park device draws a blank

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer, John Mullin and Chris Hawkins

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 571 words


Julia Hartley-Brewer, John Mullin and Chris Hawkins

Race officials at Kempton Park yesterday pressed ahead with the biggest event of
the annual post-Christmas meeting despite two bomb threats before evacuating
20,000 racegoers from the grounds.

Thousands of racing enthusiasts were forced to leave the course on its busiest
day of the year after police passed on two warnings of a car bomb claimed to be
planted by dissident republican terrorists.

But police did not advise the immediate evacuation of the racecourse because an
unrecognised code word was given.

Kempton Park officials decided there was enough time to run the showcase race,
the Pertemps King George VI Chase, before abandoning the last two races of the
day.

Shortly after the 2.20pm race was won by 5-2 favourite See More Business, a
public address announcement told the crowd that the meeting had to be abandoned
early.

Police and race stewards cleared the stands and car parks as racing enthusiasts
made their way out of the grounds, some still carrying their champagne glasses,
in scenes similar to those after the Grand National at Aintree was abandoned in
1997 after a bomb scare.

They were allowed to drive away, rather than abandon their cars and be ferried
to safety.

A police search of the grounds at Kempton Park was called off at 6pm after no
car bomb was found. A spokesman for Scotland Yard said last night: 'There was no
trace of a device found. The decision to evacuate the grounds was made by the
racecourse management, not by the police.'

The hoax call was made in the name of the dissident republican paramilitary
organisation, the Continuity IRA, to the Belfast headquarters of the BBC. A man
rang at 1.30pm and claimed a planted bomb would explode at 5pm, but the code
word he gave was not recognised. A second call was made to the Metropolitan
police 20 minutes later.

Mainstream republicans were angry at the development, long feared by security
forces in both Great Britain and Northern Ireland. They felt the hoax could
weaken the peace process and were irritated that dissidents may have copied one
of their most celebrated coups, the ruin of the 1997 Grand National.

Sue Ellen, managing director of United Racecourses, denied officials had defied
police warnings, saying: 'No way were we putting up two fingers to the
terrorists or hoaxers.

'The horses were just leaving the paddock before the King George when we first
got the message and by the time we had talked to the police, the runners were at
the start. As the message said the bomb was timed to go off later, we ran the
race and then got the public out. I feel this was the responsible thing to do
without giving anybody panic.'

Andrew Cooper, clerk of the course, said: 'The evacuation was calm and orderly.
I was very pleased with the public's response. I think they were reasonably
happy because we managed to get the big race run.'

It was the first time a race meeting has been abandoned since the Grand National
was postponed in April 1997 following an IRA bomb warning. The race was
eventually run two days later.

The two races cancelled yesterday will not now be run and, although there will
be no refunds to racegoers, any unclaimed winning betting tickets will be paid.

Continuity IRA is the only terror group in Northern Ireland never to have killed
anyone and is also the only outfit not on ceasefire.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              482 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 29, 1999

Britain's terrorism errors;
Straw is as indiscriminate as the extremists who target civilians

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 749 words


Shortly before the terrorist hijacking of the Indian plane to Afghanistan, US
police apprehended another suspected terrorist, Ahmed Ressam, as he crossed the
Canadian border in a vehicle packed with explosives. He had a plane ticket to
London. Clearly, no law will deter the determined terrorist. But let us give
some credit to home secretary Jack Straw, author of Britain's new terrorism
bill. He knows that only too well.

So what is the true aim of his bill? Mr Straw uses the euphemism, 'the changing
nature of the terrorist threat". He can only be referring to one thing: the
spectre of the 'Islamic' threat, a threat more concocted than real. He sets his
sights on curbing the multitude of dissidents from Muslim countries who make the
UK their operational headquarters.

London has earned the nickname Beirut-on-Thames. Draw a line across the globe
from Casablanca to Kashmir - every Muslim country has at least one opposition
group with a base there. With the demise of the left the principal ones are
Islamist, such as the Movement for Reform in Saudi Arabia, Egypt's Muslim
Brotherhood, the Bahrain Freedom Movement or the Tunisian an-Nahda (Revival)
movement.

Most are peaceful and disavow indiscriminate force. Others, such as the Egyptian
Gama'a Islamiya and the Algerian GIA, advocate the forceful overthrow of their
governments without any regard for civilians. But you will rarely find any that
disavow violence altogether as a political instrument.

Mr Straw's definition of terrorism is as indiscriminate as the definitions
employed by extremist groups to draw civilians into their conception of
legitimate targets. In making an offence the use of all 'serious violence" to
advance a political, religious or ideological cause, he paints all violent
activities with the same brush.

A law such as this is fine applied to liberal democracies where channels of
dissent obviate the need for violent protest. But in the Muslim world we are
dealing with regimes who have banished, imprisoned, silenced or neutralised all
opposition, even where this is entirely peaceable. Amnesty will tell you that
most also have a human rights record that would shame Attila the Hun.

Violence remains the only alternative. International conventions and human
rights treaties uphold its use as a political instrument for self -determination
and in resisting occupying forces. What they don't spell out, however, is what
course of action is open to people governed by repressive regimes. This bill
will criminalise all violent agitation for democracy, unless of course you
happen to be in Uncle Sam's back yard, and predominantly Christian, like Haiti,
in which case you can expect US marines to turn up on your beaches.

The impetus for this bill comes from King Fahd, Hosni Mubarak and the juntas
which govern the Muslim world. They have made no secret of their dislike for the
impunity with which their autocratic rule can be challenged from abroad (the
state-sponsored Egyptian press has been gloating over the proposed laws). Like
Mr Straw they don't distinguish either between peaceful and violent opposition;
they resent all questioning of their authority.

This bill will radicalise those it seeks to suppress. If you are going to be
arrested and criminalised for advocating violence what is there to stop you from
going the whole hog? Safeguards supposedly include the consent of the director
of public prosecutions. But the probability is that these powers will be used
selectively. An outspoken advocate of Saddam Hussein's execution is unlikely to
face arrest but woe betide anyone who says the same about Hosni Mubarak. Double
standards will hardly enhance Britain's standing in the eyes of ordinary
Muslims.

What Mr Straw and his cabinet colleagues ought to be doing is addressing the
causes of terrorism, not its symptoms - by paying more attention to opposition
groups and less to dictators.

Faced with a generation of despots whose shelf-life is drawing to a close, a
restructuring of our relations with their countries to take account of the mood
for democratic reform serves British interests better than throwing in our lot
with hugely unpopular regimes. It took the US 20 years to shed the stereotype of
Great Satan, gained for backing a ruthless Shah of Iran against his own people.
Do we want to be in the same position when the Saudis, and others, finally cast
off their yokes?

Faisal Bodi is deputy editor of Muslim magazine Q-News


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 1999

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 1999 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              483 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 30, 1999, Thursday Edition 1

Rise of an Iron Lady and the fall of an Iron Curtain -;
In the Eighties the Yuppie was born, Michael Douglas said "greed is good" in the
Hollywood hit Wall Street and Communism in Eastern Europe finally collapsed.
Peter Woodman reports.

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 559 words

Agrocer's daughter from Lincolnshire and a former Hollywood actor dominated
politics in the 1980s.  The newly-elected Margaret Thatcher had promised after
her May 4, 1979, election victory: "Where there is discord may we bring harmony
. . . where there is despair may we bring hope." Having quoted from St Francis
of Assisi on the steps of 10 Downing Street, she went in to embark on a complete
transformation of the British economic and industrial climate.  Very soon,
Britain was a country at war - with itself as race riots broke out in Brixton in
1981 and with Argentina following the invasion of the Falkland Islands in 1982.
Unrest continued to dominate Thatcher's second term in office when she
confronted miners' union leader Arthur Scargill. She also proved indomitable -
surviving a devastating IRA bomb attack at her hotel in Brighton at the 1984
Tory Party conference.  Meanwhile, Labour was embroiled in bitter inter-party
wrangling which saw leading lights such as David Owen and Roy Jenkins form the
break-away Social Democrat Party.  Across the Atlantic, Reagan's dragon - to be
slain at all costs - was Communism. His task was helped by the emergence in 1985
of a new, reforming Russian leader, Mikhail Gorbachev.  With those living under
Communism thirsting for the lifestyle enjoyed by the West, Gorbachev took the
Soviet Union into an era of openness. Seeds of rebellion had already been sewn
earlier in the decade when Polish union leader Lech Walesa challenged the power
of the Soviet state through his Solidarity trade union movement. By 1989 the old
Soviet order was crumbling. Hungary shook off Communism, the Berlin Wall came
down and Romanian dictator Nicolae Ceausescu was executed.  In a shipboard
summit, Gorbachev and Reagan's successor George Bush signed an arms control pact
that effectively ended the Cold War.  More than 80 soccer fans died in two
terrible incidents in May 1985 when, first, fire swept through the main stand
during a Bradford City match then when fans rioted at the Heysel Stadium in
Brussels before the Liverpool-Juventus European Cup Final.  In April 1989 there
was an even worse tragedy, when 95 Liverpool fans were crushed to death on an
over-filled terrace at an FA Cup semi-final at Hillsborough in Sheffield.  Other
terrible incidents included the death of seven astronauts in the Challenger
Space Shuttle explosion in January 1986 and the appalling Zeebrugge ferry
disaster of March 1987 in which more than 190 perished.  It was a bad decade for
transport tragedies. These included the 1985 Manchester air disaster [more than
50 dead], the 1987 Kings Cross Tube fire [30 dead], the terrible bombing of a
Pan Am flight which crashed at Lockerbie in 1988 [270 dead], the 1988 Clapham
rail crash [35 dead] and the 1989 air crash at Kegworth in Leicestershire [52
dead].  Southern England was hit by hurricane winds of up to 110mph in October
1987 and around five million trees were felled - shamefaced weathermen had to
apologise for failing to predict the storm.  Amid the doom and gloom emerged a
new world superstar in Diana, Princess of Wales. Married to Prince Charles in
almost fairy-tale circumstances in 1981, shy Di became the face of the decade.
With her vulnerability and her all-too-human failings, Diana pointed the way to
a more caring, touchy-feely era.

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mute witness: The wrecked nose section of the doomed Pan Am 747, blown
apart by a bomb over Lockerbie in 1988.

                Copyright 1999 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              484 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               December 31, 1999

There may be troubles ahead...
 1900-1909

BYLINE: By

SECTION: Features:Nostalgia:Others, Pg.24

LENGTH: 671 words


THE year 1900 saw Britain established as the greatest power in the world.

Queen Victoria had reigned for more than 60 years and presided over an empire
over which the sun never set.

The British navy was supreme and the industrial revolution had ushered in the
age of iron and steel. Everyone wanted British goods. Aristocracy still reigned
supreme. The worker knew his place. Women were still not allowed to vote.

Yet amid the general bonhomie, a few sour notes were struck.

The century dawned with British troops engaged in subduing an uprising by the
Boers in South Africa.

Abroad, the first rumblings of discontent were being heard in Russia. In 1903
the King and Queen of Serbia were murdered in their bedroom. The same year, the
Turks butchered 50,000 people in Bulgaria.

For Britain, the 20th century really began in January 1901 when Victoria finally
died at the age of 83. Her son succeeded her and the Edwardian era began. The
following year, final victory was achieved in South Africa. In 1903, a certain
Michigan businessman - one Henry Ford - set up a motor company.

The same year, American brothers Wilbur and Orville Wright managed to complete
the world's first flight - staying airborne for all of 12 seconds.

Six months later, in May 1904, Charles Rolls and Henry Royce joined forces to
create what would become the most famous car company in the world.

Meanwhile, Russia was a troubled land. She fought a brutal war against Japan and
faced difficulties at home. Her navy revolted and when workers tried to petition
the Tsar in St Petersburg, they were fired on by troops and more than 500 were
killed.

A month later, the Tsar's uncle was blown up in a terrorist attack.

Protests in Britain centred on the Suffragette (Votes for Women) movement.

In February 1908, leader Emmeline Pankhurst, then 50, wrote a moving account of
her harsh life in London's Holloway jail.

Later in 1908, Mrs Pankhurst was jailed again, together with her daughter
Christabel after a sensational trial in which Chancellor of the Exchequer David
Lloyd George and Home Secretary Henry Gladstone gave evidence on their behalf.

There had been a breakthrough for women of an altogether different kind when
American May Sutton became the first non-Briton to win a Wimbledon tennis title
when she captured the women's singles in 1905.

Three years later, London staged the Olympic Games and a tiny Frenchman, Dorando
Pietri, captured all hearts with his gallant failure to win the marathon. He
staggered and fell at the last and was finally disqualified for being helped
over the finishing line.

Two years earlier a devastating earthquake and subsequent fire practically
destroyed San Francisco. Cynics remarked that most of the churches were wrecked,
but the bars and brothels survived mainly in tact.

In 1909, Louis Bleriot became the first person to fly the Channel - completing
the Calais to Dover crossing in 43 minutes and winning a GBP 1,000 prize offered
by the Daily Mail.

A year earlier, the highlight of the literary year was the publication of
Kenneth Grahame's The Wind in the Willows.

As the decade moved to a close, Ernest Rutherford won a Noble Prize for
chemistry for his work on radioactivity and Ernest Shackleton strove to reach
the North Pole.

Pensions, of five shillings (25p) a week were available for people over 70 for
the first time in Britain; American Jack Johnson became the first black man to
hold the world heavyweight championship; a Royal Commission ruled no more
children should stay in workhouses.

But if the storm clouds were not exactly gathering over Europe, it was,
nevertheless, getting pretty gloomy. Britain witnessed a build up of military
strength by Germany under Kaiser Wilhelm II - but war, surely, was out of the
question.

After all, the Kaiser was Edward VII's nephew and the two men met in Berlin in
February 1909.

They reaffirmed their friendship and pledged to work for lasting good relations
between their countries. Nothing could go wrong...could it?

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 1999 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              485 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 31, 1999, Friday

MILLENNIUM COUNTDOWN: WHOLE PLANET OF APOCALYPTIC POSSIBILITIES - STARTING WITH
RUSSIAN POWER STATIONS

BYLINE: Andrew Marshall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 863 words


TERRORIST ATTACKS, nuclear meltdown, blackouts in all the major cities, traffic
gridlock, communications breakdowns and financial chaos: these are the perils
that the world may wake up to tomorrow, the first day of the 21st century, as it
tries to cope with the millennium bug.

While people are still coming in late for work in Britain this morning, the
millennium will already be arriving in Kiribati, in the furthest reaches of the
South Pacific. From then until well into the next day, when the west coast of
the US celebrates, computer systems around the world will be changing their
dates, one after the other.

The first serious deadline occurs in New Zealand, the first developed nation to
hit midnight, at 11am London time.Australia, which follows a couple of hours
later, also has a high level of preparedness and few difficulties are expected.

But as midday arrives in London, the clocks chime for midnight in the furthest
eastern reaches of Russia, the biggest uncertainty of all.

With Russian defence ministry specialists on joint vigil with US officers at
Petersen Air Base, Colorado, the world is reasonably well insured against an
accidental missile launch. But some Western experts worry about Russia's nuclear
power stations, where the manual back-up systems will require extra human
attention. Said one analyst: "Russians like to party at New Year and this
country, as we know, is not at its strongest when it comes to safety culture."

As the afternoon wears on in Britain, Japan and Korea arrive at midnight. Japan
started preparing for Y2K relatively late and the Prime Minister, Keizo Obuchi,
is urging citizens to stockpile three days' food and water. But far more
worrying is North Korea, a secluded, Stalinist nation with nuclear weapons and
in severe economic difficulties.

As darkness falls across Britain, midnight strikes inChina. Responsibility for
dealing with the millennium bug there rests with a vast range of organisations
at national and local levels, and it is hard to predict how they will cope.

Indonesia is high on nearly every list of potential trouble- spots. There is
potential for major disruption in power, medical care and especially in
transport links, a crucial sector in the world's largest archipelago. The
banking system is also vulnerable.

Before most people in Britain have begun partying, midnight will strike across
south Asia, and most of the world's population will have crossed into the next
millennium. Bangladesh and Sri Lanka may have some problems but these will be
mitigated by the relatively low level of computerisation. India started working
on Y2K very late. Again, power, banking and transport are the sectors expected
to see the biggest problems.

Pakistan's prospects are far worse. Preventive action came to a grinding halt
after the coup on 12 October. Now the airports, hospitals and power stations are
feared to be unready.

As the parties in Britain are starting to get under way, another huge chunk of
the world moves into the new century, including western Russia, central Europe,
much of the Middle East and east Africa.

Central and eastern Europe, caught between capitalism and communism, are key
cause of concern. Some state-run monopolies supplying water and electricity
could be hit, although new computer systems have been installed by Western
investors.

In most African countriespeople do not rely heavily on technology. None the
less, nervy businesses and investors have stayed away, even from South Africa.
Israel, which has a booming hi-tech industry, considers itself one of the best
prepared countries, though outside observers are less confident. Elsewhere in
the Middle East, the picture is patchy. The US State Department predicts
potential disruption in power and telecommunications in Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

One hour before midnight in London, the rest of western Europe hits the New
Year. The region is not expected to experience any serious difficulties. Several
European organisations will be gathering information, including Nato and the
Swift financial communications network linking banks, stock markets, securities
and clearing houses. The European Commission is deploying specialists, including
some in nuclear energy.

When the millennium finally comes to London it also comes to the millions of
computer systems around the world that use Universal Coordinated Time (UTC),
which is the same as GMT.

Despite assurances, no one quite believes there is an effective Y2K bug
repellent in Latin America. Mexico is regarded as being well-prepared, but parts
of South America - much of it in recession - may not fare so well.

The biggest test of the yearwill come almost last: the United States, the
world's most technically dependent country and the place responsible for the Y2K
bug. Concerns centre on the banking industry.

The Federal Reserve is opening a war room to monitor computer problems, and is
holding an extra $ 50bn (pounds 30bn) in its vaults to distribute to any
institutions that may be drained of funds. There will probably also be localised
problems with electricity, water, gas and telecommunications.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The countdown on one of the Azrieli Towers in Tel Aviv, left, and in
the Champs-Elysees in Paris

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              486 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           December 31, 1999, Friday

MILLENNIUM COUNTDOWN: TWO DIGITS THAT COULD SPELL APOCALYPSE - OR MAYBE NOT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 888 words


TERRORIST ATTACKS, nuclear meltdown, blackouts, traffic gridlock, communications
breakdowns and financial chaos: these are the perils that the world may wake up
to tomorrow, the first day of the 21st century, as it tries to cope with the
millennium bug.

While people are still coming in late for work in Britain this morning, the
millennium will already be arriving in Kiribati, in the furthest reaches of the
South Pacific. From then until well into the next day, when the west coast of
the US celebrates, computer systems around the world will be changing their
dates, one after the other.

The first serious deadline occurs in New Zealand, the first developed nation to
hit midnight, at 11am London time.Australia, which follows a couple of hours
later, also has a high level of preparedness and few difficulties are expected.

But as midday arrives in London, the clocks chime for midnight in the furthest
eastern reaches of Russia, the biggest uncertainty of all. With Russian defence
ministry specialists on joint vigil with US officers at Petersen Air Base,
Colorado, the world is reasonably well insured against an accidental missile
launch. But some Western experts worry about Russia's nuclear power stations,
where the manual back-up systems will require extra human attention. Said one:
"Russians like to party at New Year and this country, as we know, is not at its
strongest when it comes to safety culture."

As the afternoon wears on in Britain, Japan and Korea arrive at midnight. Japan
started preparing for Y2K relatively late and Prime Minister Keizo Obuchi is
urging citizens to stockpile three days' food and water. But far more worrying
is North Korea, a secluded, Stalinist nation, with nuclear weapons, and in
severe economic difficulties.

As darkness falls across Britain, midnight strikes inChina. Responsibility for
dealing with the millennium bug there rests with a vast range of organisations
at national and local levels, and it is hard to predict how they will cope.

Indonesia is high on nearly every list of potential trouble- spots. There is
potential for major disruption in power, medical care and especially in
transport links, a crucial sector in the world's largest archipelago. The
banking system is also vulnerable.

Before most people in Britain have begun partying, midnight will strike across
south Asia, and most of the world's population will have crossed into the next
millennium. Bangladesh and Sri Lanka may have some problems but these will be
mitigated by the relatively low level of computerisation. India started working
on Y2K very late. Again, power, banking and transport are the sectors expected
to cause the biggest problems.

Pakistan's prospects are far worse. Preventive action came to a grinding halt
after the coup on 12 October. Now the airports, hospitals and power stations are
feared to be unready.

As the parties in Britain are starting to get under way, another huge chunk of
the world moves into the new century, including western Russia, central Europe,
much of the Middle East and east Africa.

Central and eastern Europe, caught between capitalism and communism, are key
cause of concern. Some state-run monopolies supplying water and electricity
could be hit, although new computer systems have been installed by Western
investors.

In most African countriespeople do not rely heavily on technology. None the
less, nervy businesses and investors have stayed away, even from South Africa.
Israel, which has a booming hi-tech industry, considers itself one of the best
prepared countries, though outside observers are less confident. Elsewhere in
the Middle East, the picture is patchy. The US State Department predicts
potential disruption in power and telecommunications in Saudi Arabia and Qatar.

One hour before midnight in London, the rest of western Europe hits the New
Year. The region is not expected to experience any serious difficulties. Several
European organisations will be gathering information, including Nato and the
Swift financial communications network linking banks, stock markets, securities
and clearing houses. The European Commission is deploying specialists, including
some in nuclear energy.

When the millennium finally comes to London it also comes to the millions of
computer systems around the world that use Universal Coordinated Time (UTC),
which is the same as GMT.

Despite assurances, no one quite believes there is an effective Y2K bug
repellent in Latin America. Mexico is regarded as being well-prepared, but parts
of South America - much of it in recession - may not fare so well.

The biggest test of the yearwill come almost last: the United States, the
world's most technically dependent country and the place responsible for the Y2K
bug. Concerns centre on the banking industry.

The Federal Reserve is opening a war room to monitor computer problems, and is
holding an extra $ 50bn (pounds 30bn) in its vaults to distribute to any
institutions that may be drained of funds. There will probably also be localised
problems with electricity, water, gas and telecommunications.

Andrew Marshall, David Usborne, Helen Womack, Tim King, Jon Gorvett, Nicole
Veash, Karen MacGregor, Richard Lloyd Parry, Jan McGirk, Adam LeBor, Elizabeth
Nash, Phil Reeves, Peter Popham

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The countdown on one of the Azrieli Towers in Tel Aviv, top, and in the
Champs-Elysees in Paris

                      Copyright 1999 Independent Print Ltd

                              487 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               December 31, 1999

Features: Nostalgia

SECTION: Features: Nostalgia, Pg.24

LENGTH: 205 words


July, 1978: The world's first test tube baby is born at Oldham District General
Hospital, Greater Manchester. Louise Brown weighs in at 5lbs 12 ozs.

May, 1979: Margaret Thatcher becomes Britain's first woman Prime Minister, as
the Conservatives sweep back to power.

May, 1980: The Special Air Service (SAS) storm the Iranian Embassy in London,
kill all but one of the occupying terrorists, and rescue 19 hostages. The
stunning military operation is over in 11 minutes.

July, 1981: More than 700 million people around the world watch the wedding of
the year, as Prince Charles marries Lady Diana Spencer at St Paul's Cathedral.
The Archbishop of Canterbury says: 'It's the stuff of which fairy tales are
made.'

April, 1982: Argentina invades the Falkland Islands, overwhelming the single
company of Royal Marines guarding the island's capital Port Stanley. Britain
responds by assembling a task force of 40 warships.

December, 1983: A Liverpool woman aged 31 gives birth to sextuplets. The six
Walton babies n all girls n weighed less than 12lbs in total.

October, 1984: An IRA bomb devastates the Grand Hotel, Brighton, where top
British Government ministers are staying during the Conservative Party
conference.

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 1999

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              488 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               December 31, 1999

PA

SECTION: Agency: PA, Pg.45

LENGTH: 565 words


1975 CRICKET'S first World Cup is held in England, with the West Indies beating
Australia by 17 runs. The US retain golf's Ryder Cup 18-8 with six matches
halved.
1977 Red Rum wins the Grand National at Aintree for a record third time.
1979 Trevor Francis becomes Britain's first GBP 1million player when he moves to
Nottingham Forest from Birmingham.
1981 The inaugural London marathon is run from the capital's Greenwich Park. In
football, wins are rewarded with three points instead of two. Steve Davis wins
the first of his six world championships. Shergar wins the Derby by a record 10
lengths. Ian Botham almost single-handedly retains the Ashes for England.
1985 The worst sporting disaster in England takes place on the last day of the
season when 56 people are killed and hundreds are injured in a fire at Bradford
City. Two-and -a-half weeks later 39 people are killed and more than 400 injured
when a wall collapses during clashes between Liverpool and Juventus fans at
European football's showpiece event, the Champions Cup final at the antiquated
Heysel stadium in Brussels.  England cricket captain David Gower leads England
to the Ashes.
1989 British football reaches its nadir as the country's worst sporting tragedy
unfolds during an FA Cup semi-final between Liverpool and Nottingham Forest at
Hillsborough. The death toll is 95 and the ensuing inquiry by Lord Justice
Taylor is to signal the biggest rethink of the century in football.
1991 First Division football clubs announce they are to break away from the
Football League and form a Premier Division from the following season. A Will
Carling-led England win rugby union's Grand Slam.
1992 Linford Christie claims the title of fastest man on earth when he snatches
the gold medal in the men's 100metres at the Olympics in Barcelona. Nigel
Mansell becomes the first Briton for 16 years to win the Formula One drivers'
crown in his Williams.
1993 Graham Taylor, England manager since 1990, quits as boss when the national
side fail to qualify for the 1994 World Cup. The Grand National ends in farce
when the start tape fails twice and becomes entangled around jockeys and horses
alike. The United States retain golf's Ryder Cup, beating England at The Belfry.

1994 Ayrton Senna is killed when his Williams car ploughs into a perimeter wall
in the San Marino Grand Prix at Imola.  West Indies batsman Brian Lara is
immortalised when he breaks Sir Gary Sobers' Test record of 365 by 10 runs.
1995 Frank Bruno finally becomes world heavyweight champion, at the fourth time
of asking, when he beats Oliver McCall to lift the WBC version at Wembley.
1997 The Grand National is called off after a terrorist bomb threat, but goes
ahead two days later with Lord Gyllene beating Suny Bay by 25 lengths. Denis
Compton, England all-rounder, dies at the age of 78. Manchester United win their
fourth Premier League title in five years and Eric Cantona reveals he is
quitting football.
1999 Manchester United score two stoppage-time goals to beat Bayern Munich 2-1
and win the Champions League at Barcelona's Nou Camp stadium to give them club
an unprecedented Treble of European Cup, FA Cup and League championship.
Australia overcome France at the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff. Muhammad Ali is
voted Sports Personality of the Century by BBC viewers.

Sporting Landmarks of the 20th Century (1975-1999)

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 1999 Leicester Mercury

                              489 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               December 31, 1999

Long Edwardian summer before horrors of war

SECTION: Pg.22

LENGTH: 840 words


THE year 1900 saw Britain established as the greatest power in the world. Queen
Victoria had reigned for more than 60 years and presided over an empire on which
the sun never set.

The Royal Navy was supreme and the Industrial Revolution had ushered in the age
of iron and steel. Everyone wanted British goods. Nothing, it seemed could
disrupt the natural order of things. Aristocracy still reigned supreme.

The worker knew his place. Women were still not allowed to vote. The hit song of
1900 was Only a Bird in a Gilded Cage. God was in his heaven and all was right
with the world. Yet amid the general bonhomie, a few sour notes were struck.

The century dawned with British troops engaged in subduing - with difficulty -
an uprising by the Boers in South Africa. Abroad, the first rumblings of
discontent were being heard in Russia.

In 1903 the King and Queen of Serbia were murdered in their bedroom. The same
year, as Britons danced to the hit tune, The Good Old Summer Time, the Turks
butchered 50,000 people in Bulgaria.

For Britain, the 20th Century really began in January, 1901, when Victoria
finally died at the age of 83. Most of the country could not remember any other
monarch than her - the tiny, determined "Widow of Windsor". Her son succeeded
her and the Edwardian era began.

The following year, as H G Wells published The First Men in the Moon, final
victory was achieved in South Africa. In 1903, a certain Michigan businessman -
one Henry Ford - set up a motor company. The same year, American brothers Wilbur
and Orville Wright pioneered a form of travel that was to revolutionise the 20th
Century.

They managed to complete the world's first flight - staying airborne for all of
12 seconds on their first effort at Kitty Hawk in North Carolina. Six months
later, in May, 1904, Charles Rolls and Henry Royce joined forces to create what
would become the most famous car company in the world.

Later that summer the Russians completed the trans-Siberian railway - all 4,607
miles of it, as a threepence (just over 1p) rise in tobacco duty in the Budget
caused uproar in England. Despite its railway, Russia was a troubled land.

She fought a brutal war against Japan and faced difficulties at home.

Her navy revolted, and when workers tried to petition the Tsar in St Petersburg,
they were fired on by troops and more than 500 were killed. A month later - in
February, 1905 - the Tsar's uncle was blown up in a terrorist attack.

Protests in Britain centred on the Suffragette movement pressing for Votes for
Women. Supporters began to be arrested, then sentenced, then jailed, and then
finally, when they went on hunger strikes, force fed.

In February, 1908, their leader Emmeline Pankhurst, then 50, wrote a moving
account of her harsh life in London's Holloway jail. Later in 1908 Mrs Pankhurst
was jailed again, together with her daughter Christabel, after a sensational
trial in which Chancellor of the Exchequer David Lloyd George and Home Secretary
Henry Gladstone gave evidence on their behalf.

There had been a breakthrough for women of an altogether different kind as
American May Sutton became the first non-Briton to win a Wimbledon tennis title
when she captured the women's singles in 1905.

Three years later, London staged the Olympic Games and a tiny Frenchman, Dorando
Pietri, captured all hearts with his gallant failure to win the marathon.

He staggered and fell at the last, and was finally disqualified for being helped
over the finishing line.

Pietri was to receive a special gold cup from Queen Alexandra for his efforts.

Two years earlier a devastating earthquake and subsequent fire practically
destroyed San Francisco. Cynics remarked that most of the churches were wrecked
but the bars and brothels survived mainly intact.

In 1909, Louis Bleriot amazed Edwardian England by becoming the first person to
fly the Channel - completing the Calais to Dover crossing in 43 minutes and
winning a GBP 1,000 prize offered by the Daily Mail.

A year earlier the highlight of the literary year was the publication of Kenneth
Grahame's The Wind in the Willows.

As the decade moved to a close, Ernest Rutherford won a Nobel Prize for
chemistry for his work on radioactivity and Ernest Shackleton strove to reach
the North Pole.

Pensions, of five shillings (25p) a week were available for people over 70 for
the first time in Britain; American Jack Johnson became the first black man to
hold the world heavyweight championship; a Royal Commission ruled that no more
children should stay in workhouses.

But if the storm clouds were not exactly gathering over Europe, it was,
nevertheless, getting pretty gloomy. Britain witnessed a build -up of military
strength by Germany under Kaiser Wilhelm II - but war, surely, was out of the
question. After all, the Kaiser was Edward VII's nephew and the two men met in
Berlin in February, 1909. They reaffirmed their friendship and pledged to work
for lasting good relations between their countries. Nothing could go wrong -
could it?

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 1999 Western Morning News

                              490 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE DECADE - 1980S: 1980-1989

SECTION: Pg. 38

LENGTH: 918 words


Where American troops failed miserably with their attempt to rescue 53
diplomatic hostages from the US Embassy in Iran, three weeks late on May 5,
1980, the British SAS gained international recognition for the spectacular
assault on the Iranian Embassy in London.

By the end of the year the former actor Ronald Reagan ushered in a new era of
gung-ho diplomacy after crushing Jimmy Carter in the Presidential elections.

Britain became obsessed with two subjects: unemployment, which topped two
million in 1981, and the relationship between Prince Charles and a young nursery
teacher called Lady Diana Spencer.

A spate of assassinations began when John Lennon was shot dead in December 1980.
A few months later President Reagan survived after being shot in the chest by a
former disc jockey called John Hinckley. In May 1981 Pope John Paul II also
survived after being shot by a Turkish gunman.

In Britain the inner cities burned as rioters ran amok in Handsworth, Toxteth
and Brixton.

Turmoil in the Labour party saw the defection of the Gang of Four to form the
SDP.

Domestic gloom was lifted by the Royal Wedding in July 1981 watched by 700
million television viewers.

1982 was the year of the Falklands War which among other things rescued the
political fortunes of Margaret Thatcher, who was later to survive the IRA
bombing of the Grand Hotel in Brighton.

The early 1980s saw the death throes of the Cold War, from the boycott of the
Moscow and Los Angeles Olympics to the protests at Greenham Common and the
emergence of Solidarity in Poland. By 1989 the Berlin Wall had come down and it
was all over.

This was also the decade of disasters from the fire at Bradford Football Club to
Hillsborough to the Herald of Free Enterprise to Piper Alpha.

In Britain and America Thatcher and Reagan presided over the rise of the yuppies
and their "greed is good" mantra.

Elsewhere ET phoned home, Salman Rushdie was placed under a fatwa, Britain was
lashed by storms in 1987 and we became aware of Aids.

Yosser Hughes: "Gizza job. . . I can do that." Boys from the Blackstuff (1985)
by Alan Bleasdale.

"We shall not be diverted from our course. To those waiting with bated breath
for that favourite media catch-phrase, the U-turn, I have only this to say: You
turn if you want; the lady's not for turning." Margaret Thatcher, speech at
Conservative Party Conference in Blackpool 1980.

"My fellow Americans, I am pleased to tell you I just signed legislation which
outlaws Russian forever. The bombing begins in five minutes." Ronald Reagan in a
radio microphone test in 1984.

"I would understand better this type of hi-tech approach if you demolished the
whole of Trafalgar Square and started again with a single architect responsible
for the entire layout, but what is proposed is like a monstrous carbuncle on the
face of a much-loved elegant friend. . . Why can't we have those curves and
arches that express feeling in design? What is wrong with them? Why has
everything got to be vertical. straight, unbending, only at right angles - and
functional?" Prince Charles, 1984.

FAIRYTALE: The nation was filled with romance as we watched Prince Charles kiss
his new bride Princess Diana on their wedding day on July 29, 1981.

TRAGEDY: The space shuttle Challenger explodes shortly after lifting off from
Kennedy Space Center on January 28, 1986. All seven crew members died in the
explosion, which was blamed on faulty o-rings in the shuttle's booster rockets.
The Challenger's crew was honoured with burials at Arlington National Cemetery.

EXPLODE: A fire burns on the Borth Sea oil rig Piper Alpha after an explosion in
July 1988 which killed more than 160 people.

DISASTER: Oil spills from the crippled tanker Exxon Valdez on March 24, 1989,
after the vessel ran aground on Bligh Reef in Alaska's Prince William Sound. The
spill of at least 11 million gallons was one of the worst environmental
disasters in US history.

AP Photo/Anchorage Daily News, Erik Hill

BRAVE: A Chinese student blocks a line of tanks heading east on Beijing's
Changan Blvd, after Chinese forces crushed a pro democracy demonstration in
Tiananmen Square on June 5, 1989. The man, calling for an end to the recent
violence and bloodshed against pro-democracy demonstrators, was pulled away by
bystanders and the tanks continued on their way.

LEFT: Thousands fill downtown Bucharest, Romania, on December 22, 1989, for a
demonstration in the uprising that toppled the Communist dictator - the uprising
culminated with his execution on Christmas Day of that year. Who was he?

AP Photo/Rompress

FREEDOM: A man hammers away at the Berlin Wall on November 12, 1989, as the
border barrier between East and West Germany was torn down after 28 years,
symbolically ending the Cold War.

FEED THE WORLD: Some 72,000 pop and rock fans pack out Wembley Stadium in London
for the Live Aid concert on July 13, 1985. Singer Bob Geldof initiated two
day-long simultaneous concerts - one in England and one in America - which
raised more than $ 50 million to aid famine relief.

RADIATION: Young children rest in a hospital ward in Syekovo, a village near the
Chernobyl nuclear plant on April 21, 1990. Four years after the April 26, 1986
Chernobyl accident, these children were suffering intestinal problems from
exposure to radiation. A Soviet newspaper has said scientists still expect
thousands of deaths from radiation released in the Chernobyl explosion and fire.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              491 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                Birmingham Post

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE DECADE - 1970S: 1970-1979

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 972 words


This disjointed decade began with the US invasion of Cambodia in April 1970 and
ended with the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in December 1979. Internationally,
it was an era of terrorism, hijacks and coups.

In Britain the political scene was dominated by uncertainty and an unprecedent
amount of industrial action. After his surprise election victory in 1970, Ted
Heath quickly took Britain into Europe.

In 1973 the country went on a three-day week as coal miners, power workers and
train drivers went on strike. A year later Mr Heath went to the polls asking
"Who governs Britain" and the public answered "anyone but you."

Wilson returnded to Downing Street for a couple of years before resigning in
1976. His successor, Jim Callaghan, fared little better when it came to taming
the unions and spent his last year in office presiding over the Winter of
Discontent.

He was replaced by Britain's first woman Prime Minister, a former Education
Secretary called Margaret Thatcher.

In America the reputation of politicians reached a new low with the resignation
of Richard Nixon from the White House over the Watergate scandal. US foreign
policy was also in tatters with the fall of Saigon and the advance of Khmer
Rouge in Cambodia in 1975 proving American influence was nearly impotent.

Terrorism dominated the headlines from the attack on the Israeli competitors by
Arab guerillas at the Munich Olympics via the Birmingham pub bombings to the
murder of Louis Mountbatten by the IRA.

Culturally the Sex Pistols and Star Wars had varying degrees of influence.
Saturday Night Fever made John Travolta an international star and Jaws did for
swimming what Psycho had done for showers.

Princess Anne got married (and avoided being kidnapped), Ian Botham and
Sebastian Coe arrived on the sports scene and the country became decimalised.

"Ladies and gentlemen, I stand before you tonight in my red chiffon evening
gown, my face softly made up, my hair gently waved. . . the Iron Lady of the
Western World? A cold war warrior? Well, yes - if that is how they wish to
interpret my defence of values and freedoms fundamental to our way of life."
Margaret Thatcher in a speech at Finchley, 1976.

"Who loves ya, baby?" Telly Savalas in Kojak (1973-78).

"I've made mistakes, but in all my years of public life, I have never profited
from public service. I've earned every cent. And in all my years in public life
I have never obstructed justice. And I think, too, that I can say that in my
years of public life that I welcome this kind of examination because people have
got to know whether or not their President is a crook. Well, I'm not a crook.
I've earned everything I've got." Richard Nixon, 1973.

"Sexual intercourse began

In nineteen sixty-three

(Which was rather late for me) -

Between the end of the Chatterly ban

And The Beatles' first LP."

High Windows (1974) by Philip Larkin

"Labour isn't working." Conservative Party Slogan 1978-79.

PARA-MILITARY: On January 30, 1972 a member of the Parachute Regiment clashes
with a rioter in Northern Ireland during the illegal civil rights march which
resulted in the deaths of 14 people and became known as Bloody Sunday.

MAIDEN VOYAGE: This British-assembled plane takes off from Filton, near Bristol,
on its first flight in December 1971. Name it?

NAKED TRUTH: Far left, a streaker hurdles the stumps at Lords during a Test
match in August 1975.

Right, Diane Matthews, 23, makes a gesture for Women's Lib in May 1972, when she
burnt her bra in protest of a decision that women were not eligible to join the
magic circle.

WONDERFUL WORLD: Jazz musician Louis Armstrong holds his trumpet as he spends a
quiet moment in a Las Vegas dressing room in this September,1970 photo.

SOWETO SACRIFICE: Mbuyisa Makhuba carries fatally-injured Hector Petersen in
Soweto, South Africa, June 16, 1976, after police opened fire on students.
Petersen was the first victim of the "Soweto uprising" which gave birth to the
movement that defeated apartheid. This picture was taken for the now defunct
"World" newspaper, banned in 1977. AP Photo/The World, Sam Nzima

CIVILIAN SUFFERING: Phan Thi Kim Phuc, center, with her clothes torn off, flees
with other South Vietnamese children after a misdirected aerial napalm attack on
suspected Viet Cong hiding places on June 8, 1972. A South Vietnamese plane
mistakenly dropped its flaming napalm on South Vietnamese troops and civilians.
Kim Phuc became a symbol of the civilian suffering of the Vietnam War.

SAINT IN THE MAKING: Mother Teresa, head of the Missionaries of Charity, cradles
an armless baby girl at her order's orphanage in Calcutta, India in 1978. A
champion among the poor in India, Mother Teresa, an Albanian, went to India in
1928 to teach at a convent school, taking her final vows as a Roman Catholic nun
in 1937, and opened her House for the Dying in 1952. Her devotion to the
destitute children of Calcutta set a new standard of compassion for humanity.
She died September 5, 1997, at the age of 87.

TRICKY: Following his resignation, US President Richard Nixon flashes the V
-for-victory sign on the South Lawn of the White House on August 9, 1974. The
image may be the most enduring picture ever of the US presidency. It was the low
ebb of the presidency - Nixon was on his way out, having resigned his office at
noon that day as it became clear the House of Representatives would impeach him
for Watergate misdeeds.

WINTER OF DISCONTENT: The scene in London's Leicester Square in February 1979 as
public service workers went on strike, leaving rubbish piled up in the streets.

SUMMER OF DROUGHTS: Staines Reservoir during the 1976 drought.

IRON LADY: Margaret Thatcher outside N10 Downing Street after winining the 1979
General Election.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              492 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

DUKE WAS CONSIDERED FOR ULSTER PEACE TALKS

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 265 words


THE secret files reveal that Wilson's Labour Government considered asking the
Duke of Edinburgh to chair all-party peace talks on Northern Ireland.

Round table talks, with the Duke occupying the sensitive role played some 30
years later by ex-US Senator George Mitchell, was just one of the increasingly
desperate ideas put forward as the province descended into sectarian violence in
1969.

Papers show ministers even suggested expelling Northern Ireland from the United
Kingdom, only to draw back because they feared an invasion by the Irish
Republic.

Prince Charles was also at the centre of cabinet discussion with ministers
reportedly alarmed at speeches made by the 20-year-old who had been studying in
Aberwystwyth.

Terrorist

They believed he was being influenced by Welsh Nationalists.

But equally, they were concerned about a possible terrorist attack by Welsh
nationalists during Charles' investiture as Prince of Wales in 1969.

Wilson's sensitivity to the Government's economic record, particularly with the
devaluation of the pound, was underlined when the Queen's 1968 Christmas
broadcast was altered at the behest of senior officials.

Part of the text, written for the first time by the Queen herself with the Duke
of Edinburgh, was changed to drop a reference to Britain's

"economic difficulties".

The following year however, in what may have been a hint of royal displeasure,
the Queen announced the traditional broadcast was being dropped in favour of
televised coverage of the Christmas Day service at St George's Chapel, Windsor.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2000 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              493 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 1, 2000

IT TURNED OUT TO BE A SPECTACLE, BUT IN THE NICEST WAY POSSIBLE

BYLINE: FROM ROBERT JOBSON AT THE DOME

LENGTH: 858 words


CYNICS of the last century said it would be a shambles, but the opening of the
Dome proved a spectacular showcase for Britain's millennium party.

A constellation of stars, a magnificent theatre, the Beatles anthem All You Need
Is Love and a prayer for the future signalled the birth of the new millennium
and farewell to the last.

As the country exploded into celebration and colour, the GBP 758million Dome was
at its heart. Inside, the Queen, Tony Blair and other VIPs joined 10,500 guests.

Detailed plans called for eight children from Meridian school in Greenwich,
South London, to help Her Majesty officially open the dome 15 minutes before
midnight with the touch of a button - but no speeches.

Two choristers were expected to be the last voices heard in the Dome moments
before pictures of Big Ben striking midnight were beamed to the audience.

Arriving by boat, the aptly named Millennium of Peace cruiser, from the River
Thames, the Queen was due to be helped by schoolchildren before tugging on giant
golden ropes to reveal the Dome in all its glory for the first time.

The spectacle, including performances by pop group The Corrs and singers Jools
Holland and Mick Hucknall, was due to begin with David Wigwam, 13, and Sumudu
Jayatilaka, 20, singing a special musical version of the Millennium Resolution,
composed by newly knighted John Tavener.

David, head chorister of St Peter's parish church in St Albans, Hertfordshire,
and Sumudu, who was brought up in Scunthorpe, joined hands over the Millennium
Star, a 203-carat flawless diamond which will be on display at the Dome.

Laser beams were set to illuminate the diamond as it took centre stage at the
show in the moments before midnight. Guests included the Duke of Edinburgh,
Princess Anne and her husband Commodore Timothy Laurence, Cabinet ministers and
other senior politicians.

The thousands inside will hear the midnight chimes of Big Ben and see pictures
of the River of Fire, which will sweep down the Thames from Tower Bridge to
Vauxhall Bridge.

After joining in the singing of Auld Lang Syne, Dome guests will sit back and
enjoy a spectacular show featuring aerial acrobatics Abigail Yeates, 30, and
John Paul Zaccarini, 29. The pair, who posed naked together for pre-night
publicity shots, promised to wow the crowd with a daring ballet on bungee ropes.

The night to remember will end with a new arrangement of the National Anthem by
composer Jonathan Dove, sung by Birmingham-based diva Ruby Turner.

A fanfare will greet the royals when they arrive and they will be escorted to
their seats by Mr Blair and his wife Cherie. Before the Queen's arrival guests
will be "warmed up" by comedian Stephen Fry. Among the invited members of the
public were two parents who lost their 12-year-old son in an IRA bomb blast.
Colin and Wendy Parry have worked tirelessly as ambassadors for peace since
their son Tim was killed in their home town of Warrington, Cheshire, in 1993.

THE couple will join others nominated for their community work and help for
others, including Kate Beddard, of Wolverhampton, who has been dubbed best
mother in the world.

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr George Carey, will give a blessing, and three
Barnardo children will read prayers before the Archbishop says the Lord's
Prayer. The trio, Howard Comrie, 11, Joanne Metcalfe, 11, and Tyron Charles, 10,
all attend the New Testament Church of God in Leeds and Bradford.

To music from an 82-strong English National Opera Orchestra, various artists
including Welsh soprano Rosemary Joshua will perform before the Beatles enduring
song All You Need Is Love is played. The singers will be backed by a 276-strong
choir actually made up of nine individual choirs. Jools Holland and his rhythm
and blues orchestra will also play before the Queen's arrival.

Together with the show performers, who include 484 carnival players, there will
be more than 1,100 people performing on the night. After the ticket fiasco which
left thousands of guests having to queue for tickets, the company in charge of
the event was hoping that everything would go well.

Jennie Page, chief executive of the New Millennium Experience Company, said the
atmosphere within the Dome was "quite nervy" in the countdown to the opening.

"We knew it could be completed with a fair wind, although it's taken thousands
of people working the most amazing hours with phenomenal dedication to achieve
it," she said.

Perhaps to help those nerves, organisers did their best to ensure it went with a
swing by ordering 10,000 bottles of champagne, donated by one of the sponsors
Tesco. Elsewhere hundreds of thousands of revellers were expected on the streets
of London to celebrate, turning the capital into a giant playground.

Other attractions were expected to be in full swing, including a makeshift
fairground outside Buckingham Palace along The Mall.But there were
disappointments such as the failure of the big wheel London Eye. It emerged that
Health and Safety Executive officials would have banned the use of the wheel if
the operators had not cancelled the launch.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2000 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              494 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

THE INDEPENDENT TRAVELLER: LOOK BACK IN GRATITUDE;
 SIMON CALDER THE MAN WHO PAYS HIS WAY

BYLINE: Simon Calder

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 976 words


THINGS CAN only get worse. From the travel point of view, that statement has
appeared correct for each of the five New Years since I took this job. We
travellers have never had it so good. Almost anywhere you could want to go is
accessible more easily, safely and cheaply than ever. Surely this happy state of
affairs cannot last?

Perhaps it can. Mass tourism was born in the 20th century, when developments
from the Holidays With Pay Act to the Jumbo Jet enabled us to see more of the
world. By 1999, someone earning the average UK wage could travel to the other
side of the of the world for a week's pay. Once our travel horizons ended at the
British seaside; then we tentatively began to explore Europe; now a fortnight in
the Caribbean is barely worthy of comment.

In the past few years the pace at which our frontiers have expanded has
quickened - partly because geo-political barriers have fallen. Today, for
example, you can read on page 5 a guide to 48 hours in Prague.

Yet a decade ago, a visit to the Czech capital involved at least two days
immersed in a bureaucracy possibly devised by Kafka. When your visa was finally
secured, you had to struggle to find a seat on one of the infrequent, overpriced
flights to the Czech capital. Today, there are no visa rules and 50 planes each
week between Britain and Prague.

A year ago, there was no sign that sanctions against Libya would end; now there
are regular flights between Gatwick and Tripoli, and adventurous companies
operate trips there.

Britain's package-holiday industry deserves credit for making exotic
destinations affordable. From Gatwick and Manchester you can jet off to India
and Sri Lanka, Gambia and Kenya, Colombia and Costa Rica - actually, the last
two were tried in the Nineties and turned out to be dismal failures, but you get
the idea. The world is cheap.

Two key indexes show how prices have fallen. Twenty years ago, the lowest cost
of a return flight from London to Paris was around pounds 60. While prices for
almost everything else have more than doubled, the fare has remained the same -
the only change has been that governments now take a quarter of the fare in tax,
and there is the added option of a non-stop train.

To Australia, the difference is even more striking. In 1987, the cheapest flight
I could find to Sydney was pounds 775 return, travelling on Garuda via most of
the airports in the eastern hemisphere. Today, a quick trawl around the bucket
shops should find you something for well under pounds 600, requiring just a
single stop en route.

u

CLOSER TO home, the ending of duty-free within Europe has not led, thankfully,
to an extra pounds 15 on the cost of a holiday flight or the loss of 160,000
jobs - which is what the industry predicted. Instead, it has been a benefit to
many travellers as airports and ferry companies cut their big profit margins -
you can now buy duty-paid goods for a lot less in Heathrow than Hounslow.

u

THERE ARE some clouds threatening to obscure the sun beaming down benignly upon
us. When I talked to Richard Branson for today's "Someone's Got to Do It"
feature on page 7, he expressed fierce opposition to airline alliances such as
Star and Oneworld, on the grounds that they are anti-competitive. Since then, he
has sold almost half of Virgin Atlantic to Singapore Airlines - which is set to
become the latest member of the Star Alliance.

u

EVENTS OVER the past year suggest that tourists are increasingly becoming soft
targets, being caught in campaigns by guerrillas against governments.

The further you stray from the beaten track, the more you are susceptible to a
range of health hazards - most notably strains of malaria that develop
resistance as quickly as scientists devise new drugs. And a rather different
danger - a growing world homogeneity which means you can find an identical
burger and soft drink in San Salvador as in Salford.

Travellers are partly to blame: as the customers of McDonald's opposite the
Pantheon in Rome show, there is nothing quite like home from home. As the world
becomes cheaper to reach, tourism threatens to cheapen it. But it is more of a
force for good than evil, so let's hope it gets better.

u

IN GUATEMALA City on a midwinter's day, a Cubana flight overshot the runway and
more than a dozen people died. On Christmas Day, everyone aboard a Cubana flight
died when it ploughed into a mountain in Venezuela.

These latest tragedies suggest Cuba's national airline is in even worse shape
than previously thought. Cubana is now alarmingly far ahead of other carriers in
the grisly league table of fatal accidents, having suffered eight in the past 25
years. And while aviation safety standards are improving steadily, the Cuban
airline's record is getting worse, with four fatal crashes in the past three
years alone. On average, one in 40,000 departures ends in disaster - compared
with better than one in a million on most airlines.

When, in the past, I have tackled Cubana about its abysmal record, the response
has been persuasive: due to the American economic blockade, the airline has had
to rely upon Soviet-built aircraft which have a poorer safety record than
Western planes. With one exception - a bomb attack by US-based terrorists on a
DC-8 - all the disasters have involved Tupolev, Ilyushin and Antonov planes. On
transatlantic services, the airline uses American-built DC-10s almost
exclusively.

It was one of these aircraft that ploughed into a suburb of Guatemala City on 21
December. Cubana is scheduled to fly from Gatwick to Havana this afternoon. Were
I a passenger booked upon flight CU 401, I would still travel - flying, even
with Cubana, is still safer than other forms of transport. But I trust the Civil
Aviation Authority is looking closely at the airline's safety standards.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2000 Independent Print Ltd

                              495 of 496 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 1, 2000, Saturday

20TH CENTURY QUIZ;
 WHICH HISTORIC EVENT HAPPENED IN WHICH YEAR?

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1833 words


THE hundred events below all relate to different years of the 20th century. Can
you work out when each event occurred? Fill in your numbers on the grid.

1.U.S. President John F. Kennedy was assassinated as he rode in an open car
through Dallas, Texas.

2.Russia became the first country to successfully launch a man-made satellite
into space. Sputnik I was followed a month later by Sputnik II, carrying the
first animal in space, Laika the dog.

3.King Edward VIII abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson.

4. England beat West Germany 4-2 to win football's World Cup final at Wembley
Stadium.

5.The British National Health Service, a new national insurance scheme and other
welfare reforms came into operation.

6.The assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand triggered chain of events which
culminated in World War I.

7. The SAS stormed the terrorist-occupied Iranian Embassy in Knightsbridge,
London.

8. Nazi leader Adolf Hitler became Chancellor of Germany.

9. The Berlin Wall, erected in 1961 to separate East and West Germany, was
demolished after the collapse of the Communist regime.

10. Inventor John Logie Baird gave his first public demonstration of television.

11. Major earthquake destroyed most of San Francisco, killing more than 1,000
people.

12. The Warsaw Pact was signed, forming the Eastern Bloc nations into Communist
military alliance.

13. First successful human heart transplant carried out in Cape Town by
Christiaan Barnard.

14. Two British archaeologists became the first humans to look into the tomb of
the Pharaoh Tutankhamun for more than 3,000 years.

15. The Beatles received MBEs in recognition of their international success.

16. British Prime Minister, Winston Churchill, announced the end of hostilities
in Europe, and three months later World War II was officially declared over.

17. First non-stop flight over the Pacific by Clyde Pangborn and Hugh Herndon.

18. Nelson Mandela sentenced to life imprisonment for sabotage and plotting to
overthrow the South African government.

19. The Lumiere brothers announced they had developed a process practical enough
to make colour photography commonplace.

20. Medical student Roger Bannister became the first person to run a mile in
under four minutes.

21. Bob Geldof brought together rock superstars for Live Aid to raise money for
famine victims.

22. Adolf Hitler published Mein Kampf, a book he had dictated in prison.

23. England battered by winds gusting up to 110mph. The Meteorological Office
came under fire for its failure to predict the hurricane.

24. After years of campaigning for independence by Mahatma Gandhi and others,
British rule in India came to an end after 163 years.

25. The Panama Canal was opened by an explosion of dynamite, removing the last
obstacle between the Atlantic and Pacific oceans.

26. An IRA bomb intended to destroy the British cabinet exploded at the Grand
Hotel, Brighton.

27. Notorious U.S. criminals Bonnie Parker and Clyde Barrow were shot dead after
an ambush in Louisiana.

28. Britain sweltered in a summer heatwave which caused a severe drought and the
introduction of water rationing.

29. Prohibition of the manufacture and sale of alcohol came into force in the
US.

30. The Prince of Wales married Lady Diana Spencer in St. Paul's Cathedral,
London.

31. The first winter Olympic Games were held in the French Alps at Chamonix.

32. A band of Arab terrorists attacked members of the Israeli Olympic team in
the athletes' village near Munich, Germany.

33. King George VI and Queen Elizabeth were crowned at Westminster Abbey.

34. The ground-breaking censorship case involving the D.H. Lawrence novel Lady
Chatterley's Lover ended, with the jury ruling that the book was not obscene.

35. Charles Lindbergh became the first person to fly solo across the Atlantic.

36. The second Olympic Games of the modern era were held in Paris.

37. Assassination of civil rights campaigner Dr Martin Luther King in Memphis,
Tennessee.

38. The inaugural session of the United Nations General Assembly took place in
London.

39. Duke of York, later to become George VI, married Lady Elizabeth Bowes -Lyon,
now the Queen Mother, at Westminster Abbey.

40. Pounds, shillings and pence replaced by decimal currency.

41. NATO - the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation - formed to act as a defensive
peace alliance.

42. On what became known as Black Thursday, the day of the Wall Street crash,
nearly 13 million shares changed hands on the New York Stock Exchange.

43. Louise Brown, the world's first test-tube baby, was born by Caesarean
section at Oldham District General Hospital.

44. Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Hawaii, caused the US to enter World War
II.

45. First Model T Ford, the first car intended for mass production, was produced
in Detroit, USA.

46. Explosion of a nuclear reactor at Chernobyl in the Soviet Union caused
dangerous levels of radiation to be released into the atmosphere.

47. Sydney Harbour Bridge opened in Australia.

48. Fidel Castro became President of Cuba after overthrowing the dictator
General Fulgencio Batista.

49. The Entente Cordiale, a historic agreement between Britain and France, was
signed.

50. Cambodia fell under the control of the Communist Khmer Rouge forces which
were led by evil Pol Pot.

51. The Titanic sank in the North Atlantic on her maiden voyage, with the loss
of more than 1,500 lives.

52. Nelson Mandela released from prison in South Africa, immediately becoming
deputy president of the ANC and committing himself to negotiations with the
government over a non-racial constitution.

53. The D-Day landings on the beaches of Normandy code-named Operation Overlord,
were successfully carried out by Allied troops.

54. Barings PLC, Britain's oldest merchant bank, went bankrupt when Nick Leeson
lost more than pounds 600m.

55. Russian Revolution took place, culminating in the abdication of the monarch
Tsar Nicholas II, and the eventual installation of a Bolshevik government under
Lenin.

56. A 51-day stand-off near Waco, Texas, between federal agents and members of
the Branch Davidians religious cult ended in tragedy as the cult's compound was
destroyed by fire.

57. Operation Dynamo, the mass evacuation from Dunkirk, rescued 225,000 British
troops.

58. A Pan Am Boeing 747 jumbo jet en route from London to New York crashed in
the village of Lockerbie, Scotland.

59. Professor Ernest Rutherford revealed he had successfully split atoms by
artificial means.

60. Manchester United's 'Busby Babes', in a fatal plane crash on Munich airport
runway.

61. Eighth Army defeated the German Afrika Korps at the Battle of El Alamein,
Egypt.

62. The Soviet Union's Major Yuri Gagarin became the first man to fly
successfully in space.

63. Queen Victoria died at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight.

64. U.S. President Ronald Reagan proposed a new Strategic Defence Initiative,
known as 'Star Wars', to provide anti-ballistic missile space defence system for
America.

65. The Lusitania, a US liner, sank off the Irish coast after being torpedoed by
a German submarine.

66. The Queen and French President Francois Mitterrand formally inaugurated the
Channel Tunnel.

67. The Korean War started after communist North Korea invaded the independent
south.

68. Robert E. Peary became the first man to reach the North Pole.

69. Margaret Thatcher, leader of the Tory party, became Britain's first woman
Prime Minister.

70. Penicillin, a mould which attacks harmful bacteria, was discovered
accidentally by Professor Alexander Fleming.

71. U.S. astronaut Neil Armstrong, commander of Apollo 11, became the first man
on the moon.

72. Edmund Hillary and Sherpa Tensing became the first to reach the summit of
Mount Everest.

73. Albert Einstein first proposed his special Theory of Relativity.

74. The Gulf War started after Saddam Hussein failed to meet the deadline to
withdraw from Kuwait.

75. In the face of a German invasion of Poland, Britain declared war on Germany,
a conflict that escalated to become World War II.

76. Elvis Presley died at his Graceland mansion in Memphis.

77. Norwegian Roald Amundsen beat Captain Robert Scott to become the first to
reach the South Pole.

78. Ceasefire declared in the Vietnam War, and a peace treaty drawn up in Paris,
leading to withdrawal of US troops.

79. The King and Queen opened the Festival of Britain on the South Bank of the
Thames.

80. Benito Mussolini became 'Il Duce', the leader of Italy's National Fascist
Party.

81. The European Union announced a worldwide ban on the export of British beef
products amid fears of BSE, or 'mad cow' disease.

82. Sir Malcolm Campbell became the first person to achieve a land speed of more
than 300mph in Bluebird.

83. The Cuban missile crisis was triggered by the discovery that Russian nuclear
warheads were being secretly installed in Cuba.

84. The Boer War was officially declared over.

85. Sexual harassment suit brought against President Bill Clinton led to an
investigation into his relationship with former White House intern Monica
Lewinsky.

86. Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain arrived in Britain after a meeting with
Adolf Hitler, describing the peace accord as promising 'peace for our time'.

87. The Queen had an 'annus horribilis' as Andrew and Charles both announced
separation from their wives and a fire destroyed much of the interior of Windsor
Castle.

88. Talking motion pictures were demonstrated for the first time by U.S.
inventor Thomas Alva Edison.

89. Ill-fated flight of the US space capsule Apollo 13, crippled by an explosion
in its service module, ended happily with a splash-down in the Pacific Ocean.

90. Germany admitted defeat and signed the armistice to end World War I.

91. Diana, Princess of Wales, Dodi Al Fayed and their driver were killed in a
car crash in Paris.

92. RAF bombers of 617 Squadron, which became known as 'dam busters', attacked
and breached two German dams.

93. The Falklands War was initiated by Argentina's full-scale military invasion
of the Islands, and ended in British victory ten weeks later.

94. The Easter Rising, a rebellion against British rule, took place in Dublin,
Ireland.

95. Richard Nixon resigned from the Presidency in the face of impeachment for
'high crimes and misdemeanours' in Watergate scandal.

96. Football's first World Cup competition was held in Uruguay.

97. King George VI died, his eldest daughter becoming Queen Elizabeth II at the
age of 25.

98. A military conflict developed after the nationalisation of the Suez Canal
Company by Egypt was followed by an Anglo-French attempt at intervention.

99. The Wright brothers flew their plane for the first time.

100. NATO air strikes forced Yugoslav President Slobodan Milosevic to withdraw
his troops from the province.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2000

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Castro; Churchill; Diana; Gandhi; Victoria; Elvis; Edward VIII

                            Copyright 2000 MGN Ltd.

                              496 of 496 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                January 1, 2000

Laser beams in a new dawn;
 Dawn of 2000 Millions join the fun as world dances to midnight chimes

BYLINE: Mervyn Hancock

SECTION: News, Pg.2/ 3

LENGTH: 989 words


THE Millennium arrived with an explosion that was felt across the world.

As midnight struck in Britain millions of people - including hundreds of
thousands in the West - celebrated the dawn of the year 2,000 with the biggest
parties ever seen.

The jubilation was repeated around the globe with events that will live in the
memories forever.

The Millennium was greeted in spectacular style in London where more than three
million people took to the streets.

But while many of Britain's big cities were heaving with thronging party- goers
some areas reported pubs and clubs were no busier than a normal Friday with many
people thought to have seen in the New Year at home.

In the South West emergency services said fewer people than expected had
ventured out to join the celebrations.

Police in Avon and Somerset reported just "one or two" arrests by midnight.
Celebrations in Gloucestershire were described as "peaceful and quiet".

One of the first babies of the millennium to be born in Britain arrived at five
minutes past midnight in Dundee - the first of a set of twins.

A baby boy was born at 14 minutes past midnight in Gloucestershire Royal
Hospital, Gloucester. Mother Patsy Darch and baby Thomas from Tredworth were
doing well.

Although there were no early signs of the dreaded Millennium Bug, the night did
not go without a hitch.

Some guests heading for the Millennium Dome were forced to wait for more than
seven hours to collect their prized tickets and at one point police had to close
two bridges across the River Thames because of the sheer volume of people.

The grand National Lottery draw was delayed by technical problems.

Mobile phone customers in part of Britain lost their service last night when the
Vodafone network crashed due to the volume of calls.

The big party began on a small South Pacific atoll called Millennium Island -
and then hour by expectant hour a new era swept across the planet.

Grass-skirted dancers on a coral beach, a massive 2 million worth of fireworks
in Sydney Harbour, the sounding of ancient bells in the Far East, and for some
just silent prayers - around the world billions of people joined in a
satellite-linked pageant to say Welcome Year 2000.

It was just 10am in Britain when finally the grass-skirted dancers sang in
Micronesian, illuminated by moonlight and the licking flames of glowing torches
on a dark tropical beach of Kiribati's usually uninhabited Millennium Island.

The world's first industrialised country to hail the new era was New Zealand ,
and at 11am GMT a starfield of fireworks flushed its midnight sky with purples,
oranges and violets.

Two hours later, Sydney, Australia, treated a million onlookers to an elegant
harbourside show of fireworks.

Ailing Russian President Boris Yeltsin resigned abruptly 12 hours before 2000
arrived in Moscow, surprising the world.

And on a remote Afghan tarmac, hijackers freed 155 hostages who had spent a
terrifying week as captives on a grounded Indian Airlines plane.

Fears about terrorism and technology clouded the world's millennial revelry.
Nations, airlines and computer users girded for eruptions of the Y2K bug. Police
worldwide braced for terrorist attacks.

But New Zealand, regarded as a Y2K test case for the industrialised world, began
2000 with no reports of glitches.

"The lights are still on," said Basil Logan, chairman of the Y2K readiness
commission.

In London security chiefs used a bunker, designed for controlling emergency
services in the event of major disasters or nuclear attack, to monitor parties
and events across Britain.

The millennium's arrival ends what is perhaps human history's most turbulent
century, one of unprecedented strides in science and technology, as well as
upheaval and violence on an unprecedented scale.

With that parentage, the 21st century begins against a backdrop of apprehension
- about terrorism, technology and humanity's place in an increasingly confusing
world. Leaders around the world called for calm and co -operation.

UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan welcomed the infant century's hope but warned of
its "new dangers - or old ones in a new and alarming form."

More than 200,000 people packed Singapore's glittering Orchard Road shopping
boulevard for a party featuring pop bands, dance performances and local TV
stars. Filipinos set off thousands of fireworks, blanketing Manila with smoke.

People bet on horses in Hong Kong, prepared for 2,000 weddings in Thailand and
streamed into the temples of Angkor in Cambodia.

For Bethlehem, the moment meant freedom for 2,000 doves, flying into the
floodlit night outside Christ's traditional birthplace.

Last up as the millennium cascaded across the globe? French Polynesia, which
sits just opposite Kiribati on the international date line. Not everybody was
celebrating.

What was believed to be the first baby of the millennium, a boy, was born in
Auckland, New Zealand, at 12:01am (1101 GMT), Waitakere Hospital said.

In Allentown, Pennsylvania, Sarah Knauss' life ended. According to the Guinness
Book of Records, she was the world's oldest person - 119 years old.

She died quietly in a nursing home, some 33 hours before seeing her third
century.

Bristol hosted the biggest street party in the West which saw thousands of
people march on the city centre for a lantern parade, a major rock concert
starring Roni Size and two firework spectaculars.

None of the major utilities had had any Millennium bug problems .

SWEB spokesman Derek Lickorish said that shortly after midnight just one or two
of the company's 1.4 million customers were without power which was business as
usual.

He said: "We had 150 staff on stand-by and fortunately none of them were
needed."

Bristol Water spokesman Jeremy Williams said: "We have not had any problems
connected with the Millennium Bug."

Staff were due to be stood down just after 1am.


LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2000

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2000 Bristol United Press



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 2000-2495
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:05:50

