



Download Request: Select Items: 501-743
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:19:47
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: ACTION 'IN DAYS': SHARES RISE BY POUNDS 43BN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 90 words


THE FTSE 100 closed up four per cent up yesterday as shares rallied in Britain
and America despite fears of a military conflict.

The index closed 180.2 points ahead at 4,613.9 adding pounds 43billion to the
value of the UK's top 100 firms. But it was still down 10 per cent from its
level before the terrorist attacks in the US.

Stocks in the US were also four per cent up. The rises are due to investors
snapping up bargains after last week's falls. One said: "With the market down,
it's not surprising people are tempted."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                               2 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

MIRROR M@ILBOX: PURGE OUR STREETS OF BIN LADEN FANATICS

BYLINE: Ameen Patel

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 156 words


THE extremist Al-Muhajiroun group, which openly supported the terrorist attacks
on America, now wants to hold anti-West rallies.

I am appalled that these fanatics, who say Tony Blair is a legitimate target for
assassination, are still free on our streets.

They should be arrested immediately.

Their leader Sheikh Omar Bakri, a Syrian asylum seeker who The Mirror exposed as
a bin Laden supporter, has six children and has in the past claimed benefits
here.

Britain is the breeding ground for Islamic fundamentalism, and violence will
surely erupt on our streets in the coming weeks unless these fanatics are
interned.

This proves that Britain is as guilty of harbouring terrorists as any country.

The allied forces, instead of attacking the already destitute Afghan people,
should concentrate their efforts on people like Bakri, who are the true enemies
of peace and Islam.

Ameen Patel Bradford, W Yorks

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                               3 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

OPIK IS AGAINST ID CARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 202 words


WELSH Liberal Democrat leader Lembit Opik has warned that the introduction of
identity cards across the UK could lead to a Big Brother Britain.

He has voiced opposition to calls for ID cards to be introduced in the wake of
this month's terrorist attacks on America, insisting he does not believe the
Government should be interfering in people's lives.

The Montgomeryshire MP added that ID cards are not an effective method of
combating crime and terrorism.

"Countries with identity cards still have crime and terrorism. People with
identity cards still become terrorists and evade detection, " Mr Opik said.

The Government says it is "very seriously" considering the introduction of ID
cards in Britain alongside a tough package of anti-terrorism laws.

Mr Opik said yesterday that ID cards intrude on civil liberties and must not be
introduced as a kneejerk reaction to the terrorist attacks on New York and
Washington.

He added that he is not prepared to write a blank cheque to take away civil
liberties.

"ID cards are used as an excuse to intrude and interfere in people's lives, " Mr
Opik said. "They are a means of stopping people going innocently about their
daily lives."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               4 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 25, 2001

Straw: Britain must be prepared for 'war' casualties

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 231 words


BRITAIN will suffer casualties in any military action against those responsible
for the US terror attacks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw warned yesterday.

As the US and its allies edged closer to military action, Mr Straw said he
understood the anxiety in Britain over possible action. He also said
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime was complicit with prime suspect Osama bin
Laden and his terrorist organisation al-Qaida.

"Above all, what people have to expect is a great deal of uncertainty, and I'm
sorry about that," the Foreign Secretary told BBC Radio 4's Today.

"But it is very difficult in these extraordinary circumstances, where this is
not any kind of classic war, but we're fighting non-state terrorists supported
by a semi-state. The circumstances are very uncertain and, of course, people are
going to be worried and above all those in the services and service families.

"There will be risks and there may well be casualties, and that is a very heavy
responsibility on all of us who are having to make these decisions, but it is
obviously very, very much worse for those taking the risks and for their
families."

Mr Straw made the comments as he prepared to become take the first trip to
Tehran by a British Foreign Secretary since the Islamic revolution there in
1979. The trip is part of the effort to underpin a worldwide coalition against
terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                               5 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

BIN LADEN PREPARES FOR HOLY WAR;
 AFGHANISTAN: TALIBAN DEPLOYS '300,000 BATTLE-HARDENED TROOPS' AS MESSAGE IS
RELAYED FROM TERRORIST MASTERMIND IN HIDING

BYLINE: Nick Speed, Patrick Fletcher And Ian Hunt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 764 words


OSAMA bin Laden, the prime suspect for the terror attacks on the United States
two weeks ago today, called on Pakistan's Muslims yesterday to fight "the
American crusade forces".

Afghanistan's hard-line Taliban government said it had deployed 300,000 battle
-hardened troops to key areas.

It warned Americans they were "igniting a fire that will burn them".

Meanwhile, as the United States continued to build up its military presence in
the region, President George W Bush turned the screw on bin Laden's support
network by telling international banks used by the Al-Qaida terrorist network to
freeze its assets or have their US holdings frozen.

In Britain Prime Minister Tony Blair is considering cutting short the Labour
Party conference next week and recalling Parliament to debate the international
crisis.

In a statement broadcast yesterday on Qatar's Al-Jazeera satellite channel bin
Laden exhorted followers to stay steadfast on the path of jihad, holy war, under
the leadership of Mullah Mohammed Omar, the Taliban leader.

The statement was signed by bin Laden and dated Sunday.

Bin Laden, believed to be in hiding in Afghanistan, often communicates with the
outside world through Al-Jazeera, known among Arabs for its wide reach and its
independent and aggressive editorial policies.

He said he had been informed that some "of our Muslim brothers in Karachi were
killed while expressing their opposition to the aggression of the American
crusade forces and their allies on Muslim lands in Pakistan and Afghanistan".

He said he was praying to God that they would be accepted as martyrs and "their
children are my children and I will be their caretaker. We hope that they are
the first martyrs in Islam's battle in this era against the new crusade and
Jewish campaign led by the big crusader Bush under the flag of the cross."

Demonstrations have been held in the Pakistani cities of Karachi, Peshawar and
Quetta by Pakistanis who view bin Laden as an Islamic hero.

Bin Laden said he was calling on all Muslims in Pakistan to use all they
possessed and all their effort to stop American troops from invading Pakistan
and Afghanistan.

Mr Bush, announcing a freeze on assets associated with bin Laden held in the US,
including those of three non-profit organisations, said he had signed the order
one minute after midnight, adding, "This list is just the beginning."

The Taliban's British bank accounts have been frozen since sanctions were
imposed in 1999 after the Taliban regime refused to hand bin Laden over in the
wake of the attacks on US embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

A Downing Street spokesman said last night that Mr Blair's current thinking was
to wind up the Labour conference in Brighton next Wednesday and summon MPs back
to Westminster for a two-day debate on the Thursday and Friday. The spokesman
stressed that an earlier recall of Parliament had not been ruled out "should
that be appropriate".

In an apparently co-ordinated move the Conservatives said they would be cutting
short their conference the following week in Blackpool.

Tory Party chairman David Davis said the conference would end on Wednesday,
October 10, with Ian Duncan Smith's first speech as party leader.

Earlier the Prime Minister met Mr Duncan Smith in Downing Street for talks on
the crisis.

Mr Blair briefed senior politicians from all the main parties on the latest
preparations for military action.

He also took senior Labour backbenchers into his confidence on progress so far
in the hunt for bin Laden. Donald Anderson, chairman of the Commons Foreign
Affairs Select Committee, was among four influential back-bench select committee
chairmen called to No 10 for the briefing.

An unprecedented briefing THE confidential briefing to the chairmen of the
influential Commons select committees on home, intelligence, defence and foreign
affairs yesterday was unprecedented.

Swansea East MP Donald Anderson, foreign affairs chairman, said, "The details
are off the record but it was a welcome initiative by the Prime Minister.
Everybody who wanted to ask a question was able to do so. It was a very
impressive and reassuring performance. He couldn't give the intelligence which
the conclusions were based on but he could tell us where we are now and where we
are going.

"He was a voice of constraint.

"Clearly we could read through where we are as an alliance and the need of
caution for building a coalition. It was unprecedented and good for Parliament
and took us into the Prime Minister's confidence."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STREET DEMONSTRATION: A supporter of Jamat-i-Islami, Party of; Islam, a
Pakistani religious party, holds up a poster saying "America we are coming" at
an anti-American rally in Karachi, Pakistan, yesterday

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               6 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

BLAIR FACES BACKLASH OVER COMPULSORY ID CARDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 316 words


NEW anti-terrorist laws to be introduced in Britain in the wake of the September
11 terrorist attacks are facing growing opposition.

As the Prime Minister sought yesterday to cement support at home for the war
against terrorism, briefing senior politicians from all the main parties, he was
facing a backlash against proposals for ID cards and e-mail monitoring.

Liberal Democrats at their conference in Bournemouth and civil liberties groups
are openly hostile to compulsory ID cards. Even those broadly supportive of the
Prime Minister's stand are urging caution against panic legislation.

Swansea East MP Donald Anderson, chairman of the Commons Foreign Affairs Select
Committee, who was among four back-bench select committee chairmen called to No
10 for a briefing by Mr Blair yesterday, said later, "I am inclined to be in
favour of ID cards but it may not be the answer, nor the whole answer."

He said that if terrorists like Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, alleged to have studied in
Swansea, could steal the identity of another man he might be able to forge his
identity card too.

"I am inclined to think there is a case for ID cards but the decision should not
be made in a panic, " he said.

Other proposals include giving the authorities the right to monitor e-mail,
allowing MI5 wiretap evidence to be admissible in court, rules compelling banks
to hand over transaction information regarding suspected terror groups and
support on an anti-terrorist Euro-arrest warrant.

Montgomeryshire MP Lembit Opik, leader of the Welsh Lib-Dems, said, "Countries
with ID cards still have crime and terrorism. People with identity cards still
become terrorists and evade detection."

Author and terrorism expert Michael Yardley said, "ID cards have not prevented
Eta terrorism in Spain.

They have not prevented serious terrorism in France, or indeed in Germany or
Italy."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               7 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

POUNDS 36M THREAT TO TOURIST INDUSTRY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 450 words


THE Welsh economy could lose up to pounds 36m if Americans decide to stay at
home following the terrorist attacks.

Already suffering because of the footand-mouth crisis, the Welsh tourist
industry is bracing itself for another major setback with the number of US
visitors to Britain set to fall.

Tourism chiefs are predicting a 20pc drop in visitors to Britain this year as up
to five million people decide to stay away.

The impact on Wales - still struggling to beat the knock-on effects of foot
-andmouth - could be devastating.

Each year 152,000 US tourists visit Wales - by far its largest overseas market -
spending around pounds 36m.

A Wales Tourist Board spokeswoman said, "The recent terrorist attacks following
so soon after the foot-and-mouth crisis have wreaked havoc on the prospects for
tourism.

"Many consumers are understandably reticent about getting on a plane.

"Obviously, it's still too soon to tell the exact impact on tourism and wider
economy.

"But in the short term it is fair to say that we will probably see a global
downturn in international travel. US citizens are probably going to be more
severely affected than anyone else.

"Almost all of Britain's overseas markets report that the impact of the latest
events on international travel generally from their market will be severe,
although it is very difficult to accurately predict until the full fall-out from
the situation becomes clearer.

"The British Tourist Authority is currently collating information on likely
events."

David Baird-Murray, chairman of the Wales Tourism Alliance based in Llandrindod
Wells, said the effects on Welsh tourism would depend on the level of military
action in the Middle East.

"The question is whether there is going to be a war, " he said. "That would
certainly stop it (the influx of American tourists)."

Forum aimed at aiding recovery TOURISM minister Dr Kim Howells has launched a
new forum aimed at helping the tourism industry recover from the damage caused
by foot-and-mouth disease and the terrorist attacks.

Profit through Productivity is aimed at helping businesses measure up against
national and international standards and then adopt practical measures to
improve their performance.

"There are many examples of business excellence in Britain as well as overseas
from whom we can draw best practice and experience, " said Dr Howells.

"What is crucial is that this know-how is transferred through action and
practical measures.

"Profit and Productivity promises to deliver practical help for small
businesses, guiding them every step of the way to produce results that should
benefit the industry and our economy."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               8 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

RISK TO BRITISH FORCES MUST BE MINIMISED, DELEGATES TOLD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 167 words


THE risks British armed forces face in any mission must be "quantified and
minimised", Mr Kennedy said.

"We cannot shelve or abandon that requirement. That means supporting American
actions, only in the knowledge that Britain will be involved in all planning and
risk assessment. All that, we owe to our armed forces, " he added.

Accurate information and rational analysis were one of the "key contributions"
Britain could bring to the struggle against terrorism, Mr Kennedy said.

And, as expected, he rejected the combative rhetoric of Mr Blair and President
Bush who have said they are "at war" with the terrorists responsible for
American attacks.

"Do remember. War is not the word. Nor is crusade. Resolve is, " he said. "We
have got to fashion a mindset, to find that approach, which begins to address
the roots of such evil."We do need to get back to those first principles. In the
face of such violation, be inviolate.

Don't flinch. Democracy must prevail and it will."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               9 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

REVENGE IS NOT THE ANSWER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 301 words


SIR - The Western Mail's editorial condemning the views of the Archbishop of
Wales on the line which should be taken against the terrorist attacks in America
last week was plain misguided (September 20).

What is the difference between the death of innocent civilian Americans by the
hand of terrorists, to the death of innocent civilians in Palestine through the
American-backed Israelis, or Iraq through the activities of America and Britain?

The only difference I can see is that one was spectacular, while the other is
gradual and does not attract media attention.

Tony Blair does not speak for me when he says that we stand shoulder to shoulder
with America in seeking a military response. The only way of achieving peace, as
the Most Rev Rowan Williams says, is to eliminate the injustice which creates
terrorists.

America needs to stop backing Israel which should in turn stop building
settlements on Palestine land.

The US is forcing Pakistan into an impossible situation which may give rise to
civil war in that country and expose us all to the threat of a nuclear bomb, not
to mention the thousands of Afghans it is pushing into fleeing their homes. A
friend in need is a friend indeed but no doubt when America has achieved its
objectives it will discard those friends such as Pakistan.

Some think the attacks were motivated by envy of Americans' wealth and
lifestyle, whereas the real reason for anger is its lack of even-handedness
abroad, its forcing of its own agenda on to other countries and its repudiation
of international treaties from Kyoto to war crimes.

Revenge is not the answer. Fair play; allowing others their own environmental
and social agendas; and engagement internationally as an equal partner are.

BETHAN CHARLES Nant yr Arian, Caerfyrddin.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              10 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 25, 2001

N-plants 'at risk from terrorists';
 Jumbo jet crash could kill hundreds of thousands

BYLINE: Tristan Cork

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 2

LENGTH: 423 words


BRITAIN'S nuclear power stations must install anti-aircraft guns as a matter of
urgency to protect against terrorist attack, a shocking new report reveals.

The secret EU paper highlights the risks of a major nuclear incident, should a
World Trade Centre-style attack occur on one of the UK's nuclear plants.

The West, which has power stations at Oldbury and Berkeley in Gloucestershire
and at Hinkley Point in Somerset, could be laid waste by a direct hit on a plant
from a jumbo jet full of fuel.

The report, commissioned by the EU and written by the World Information Service
on Energy, says the facility most atrisk from attack is the Sellafield
re-processing plant.

The Cumbrian plant has numerous buildings not built to withstand such an attack
and has the potential to release two tons of deadly caesium-137, hundreds of
times more than was released at Chernobyl.

The rupturing of the atom plant's tanks of lethally radioactive waste would
cause more carnage than any other single act of terrorism could inflict on this
country.

An attack could lead to the deaths of hundreds of thousands of people and leave
large areas of Britain uninhabitable for decades.

Report author Mycle Schneider, from WISE, said: "After what happened on
September 11, we know what terrorists are capable of. It is a question of
calculating what the impact will be."

Plants in America are on high alert from attack and owners of nuclear plants are
calling on the Government to provide security personnel and anti-aircraft
batteries to protect them.

"Given the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, I think one has
to assume that the consequences could be far more severe if a nuclear power
plant were hit, " said Paul Leventhal, head of the Nuclear Control Institute in
Washington.

"Even if a crashing plane didn't penetrate the thick containment vessel
shielding a reactor, it might disable external cooling systems that prevent the
reactor from overheating, " said Mr Leventhal.

But a spokesman for British Nuclear Fuels which owns both the Berkeley and
Oldbury sites, said the West's plants were built to withstand a plane crash.

"We've got to have a 'safety case' for such an aircraft impact, otherwise we
would not be given a licence to generate electricity, " said David Cartwright.

"It would mean that should an aircraft crash into the plant, we would be able to
safely shut down.

"Sellafield is different because it it a reprocessing plant with numerous
outbuildings, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              11 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 25, 2001

'Be prepared to meet your God. . .';
 Battle Afghanistan, As Britain ralies its forces in the gulf for assault on
Afghanistan a chilling suicide note from one of the plane hijackers is revealed

SECTION: News, Pg.4/ 5

LENGTH: 435 words


BRITAIN'S armed forces were continuing to rally in the Gulf yesterday as part of
a huge training exercise of 24,000 UK troops.

Britain says the training exercise was organised well before the terrorist
attacks in the United States. But it has offered to participate in the massive
military force being assembled by Washington.

Nearly 30 British ships are expected to be deployed in the Gulf region, along
with ground troops and war planes.

The operation began earlier this month and represents the biggest Royal Navy
deployment since the 1982 Falklands conflict.

Some 14,000 Omani soldiers and 24,000 British troops are expected to participate
in the exercise, as well as hundreds of warplanes and warships, in a region 261
miles south of the capital, Muscat.

Regiments from the RAF and Army make up the task force, which includes aircraft
carriers, tanks, helicopters, amphibious landing craft and jets. In the wake of
the U.S. terrorist attacks, America has ordered the deployment of up to 130 war
planes and about 2,000 Marines to the Gulf.

A naval battle group, led by the carrier USS Theodore Roosevelt left the United
States last Wednesday, bound for the Mediterranean.

As West forces began flexing their muscles yesterday, it was revealed that a man
suspected of being a ringleader in the U.S. hijackings had left behind a
hand-written testament.

The note, which could have been written as early as 1996, included a chilling
prayer for martyrdom.

According to a U.S. government official, the note read:

"Be prepared to meet your God. Be ready for this moment."

Investigators had said that Mohamed Atta, aged 33, left a "suicide note" in a
piece of luggage in Boston. Neither the note nor the luggage ever made it onto
American Airlines Flight 11 - the aeroplane Atta crashed into the World Trade
Centre.

Investigators have now found records showing that Atta, the son of an Egyptian
lawyer, sent a package to a United Arab Emirates man suspected of being the
paymaster behind the plot and a key figure in Osama bin Laden's network. The
package, posted in Florida, has established a concrete link between Atta and
money middleman Mustafa Ahmed.

Several other hijackers also wired money to Ahmed and to their superiors in the
Middle East just days before the assaults.

An intelligence official said:

"They were sending in their change. They were going to a place where they
wouldn't need much money."

Authorities believe the hijackers' murderous operation cost just 140,000,
although they had access to more than half a million dollars (350,000).

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              12 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 24, 2001

Detectives continue to quiz three arrested under terrorist act

BYLINE: Dylan Dronfield ;Robert Westhead PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 264 words


ANTI-terrorist officers were today continuing to question three people in
Britain about the terror attacks in the US after being granted a custody time
limit extension by magistrates, Scotland Yard said.

The three people - two men and a woman - were arrested in raids in Berkshire and
Birmingham on Friday.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said an extension had been granted by magistrates
overnight to keep the three in custody at police stations in central London
until Wednesday.

The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, 29, was released without
charge.

Mr Raissi was last night recuperating at his home in Harlech Gardens, Hounslow,
west London after his release on Saturday.

His wife Noor angrily denied that he had anything to do with terrorism and said
the couple were awaiting news of her husband's 27-year-old brother Lotfi, from
Colnbrook, near Slough, Berkshire, who was being questioned by anti -terrorist
officers along with his wife Sonia, 25.

Under the provisions of the Terrorist Act 2000 the couple and a third man - who
is in his 40s from Birmingham - can be kept in custody for up to a week subject
to approved extensions from a magistrate.

The four people were arrested in raids on Friday and detectives have until this
Friday to question the remaining three should they successfully apply for a
further extension.

Mrs Raissi, who neighbours say has an 18month-old daughter, said:

"He's been released and no charges have been brought, he's innocent.

"It's ridiculous. He doesn't have a clue what it's all about."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              13 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

COUNTDOWN TO WAR: THREE STILL QUIZZED BY THE YARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 165 words


ANTI-terrorist officers were continuing to question three people in Britain last
night about the US terror attacks after being granted a custody time-limit
extension by magistrates.

The two men and a woman were arrested after raids in Berkshire and Birmingham on
Friday.

The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, 29, was released without
charge by Scotland Yard.

Mr Raissi was re- cuperating at his home in Hounslow, west London.

His wife, Noor, angrily denied that he had anything to do with terrorism and
said they were awaiting news of her husband's 27-year-old brother Lotfi,
Berkshire, who was being questioned along with his wife, Sonia, 25.

Under the Terrorist Act 2000, the couple and a man who is in his 40s and from
Birmingham can be kept in custody for up to a week subject to approved
extensions from a magistrate.

Detectives have until this Friday to question the remaining three should they
successfully apply for a further extension.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

'BRITAIN MAY HAVE TO ACCEPT CASUALTIES', STRAW

BYLINE: Steve Williams TRIBUTES TO FALLEN: Chicago firefighters salute during
the National; Anthem before the National Football League game between the
Chicago Bears and Minnesota Vikings (right) in remembrance of members of the
emergency services who died in the World Trade Centre carnage (left); while
(above); Kansas City Chiefs fan Kayla Morse has her face painted with the Stars
and stripes instead of her team's red and gold colours for their game against
the New York Giants

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 418 words


AS TONY Blair was today outlining the evidence against terror suspect Osama bin
Laden, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw warned there could British casualties in any
conflict.

Mr Blair was updating MPs from all parties on the latest in the 'war against
terrorism'.

He was also indicating how President George Bush and the rest of the
international coalition will present the evidence Washington says it has to
prove bin Ladan's terror network was behind the September 11 suicide hijackings
in the US.

The Prime Minister's meeting with a cross-party group of MPs came as Mr Straw
headed for Iran, warning Britain it may have to accept casualties in the war
against terrorism.

As he set off on a tour of the Middle East, including a groundbreaking trip to
Tehran, Mr Straw said: "There will be risks and there may well be casualties and
that is a very heavy responsibility on all of us who are having to make these
decisions - but it is obviously very, very much worse for those taking the risks
and for their families.

"Above all, what people have to expect is a great deal of uncertainty, and I'm
sorry about that," Mr Straw said.

"But it is very difficult in these extraordinary circumstances where this is not
any kind of classic war, but we're fighting non-state terrorists supported by a
semi-state."

During his trip to Iran, Mr Straw said he would try to offer the evidence of bin
Laden's involvement in the terrorist attacks.

"There can scarcely be anyone in the world, including Iran, who doesn't actually
understand the complicity of the Taliban - palpable complicity - in the most
terrible death and destruction that is being caused in Afghanistan and their
association with Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaida organisation."

Last night, the US Secretary of State Colin Powell said last night that the
government would "put before the world, the American people, a persuasive case
that ... it is al-Qaida, led by Osama bin Laden, who has been responsible".
Several officials pledged Bush would disrupt the flow of money to bin Laden with
an executive order freezing his group's US assets.

The US has scoffed at Taliban claims that bin Laden cannot be found.

Administration officials and congressional leaders turned their appearances on
TV talk shows into a two-pronged effort to show the government's resolve to
choke off the terrorists and to encourage Americans to return to a more normal
routine - crucial to getting the recession-bent economy moving again

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

THREE HELD STILL IN CUSTODY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 100 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers were today continuing to question three people in
Britain about the terror attacks in the US after being granted a custody time
-limit extension by magistrates, Scotland Yard said.

Two men and a woman were arrested in raids in Berkshire and Birmingham on
Friday. A Scotland Yard spokesman said an extension had been granted by
magistrates overnight to keep the three in custody until Wednesday.

The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, 29, was released without
charge. Mr Raissi was last night recuperating at his home in Hounslow, west
London.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

Minister eases energy policy review fears

BYLINE: By Sophie Barker

SECTION: Pg. 32

LENGTH: 366 words

ENERGY minister Brian Wilson has batted away industry concerns that his energy
policy review will be derailed by the terrorist attacks on America, which have
heightened concerns over the security of nuclear power stations.

The review is considering lifting an unofficial moratorium on new nuclear
plants, as a way of securing Britain's electricity supply ahead of an increased
reliance on imported gas.

It is due to report to Government by the end of the year - a deadline which some
industry sources claim is crucial if new nuclear stations are to be built in
time to avert a potential energy crisis.

However, events in America have exposed the vulnerability of nuclear power
stations as potential terrorist targets - a factor which has not been taken into
account by the energy review so far.

"I talked to the Performance and Innovation Unit [which is conducting the review
under the minister's chairmanship] this week and they are relaxed about the
schedule and keen to complete by the end of the year.

"Technically the review has slipped down the list of Government priorities, but
there's no reason to change the timescale. We are talking about Britain's energy
needs for the next 50 years," Mr Wilson said.

The minister, a self-confessed nuclear enthusiast whose Cunninghame North
constituency includes British Energy's Hunterston nuclear station, also ruled
out simply extending the life of Britain's nuclear power stations as an interim
measure.

This has been seen by observers as a compromise option which would enable the
Government to dodge the thorny issue of building new nuclear power stations
after 14 years.

"Extensions could only be part of an answer and it doesn't solve a 50-year
problem. The important thing is that these questions are being asked and they
are very legitimate questions.

"Nobody that says no to nuclear seems to have an answer - they are much more
strongly against anything than in favour of anything," he said.

The Government is expected to take at least three months to consider the energy
review's report, which will broadly coincide with reports from both the Commons
and the Lords committees on energy policy.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

Britons 'may lose lives' at home and abroad

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 395 words

BRITAIN must brace itself for danger at home and the death of its soldiers in
the fight against terrorism, ministers warned yesterday, as Tony Blair prepared
to brief MPs on the Government's response to the bloodshed in America.

John Reid, the Northern Ireland Secretary, said military casualties should be
expected, and he raised the prospect of "sacrifices" and possible loss of life
among civilians in Britain.

"We have to be prepared to tolerate that," he said, in what was seen as a
Government effort to prepare the country for possible attacks from terrorists
linked to those who killed more than 6,000 people in the United States.

"We should not avoid the proposition that there will be danger to us - we are
America's biggest ally - and it may involve sacrifices not only here at home,
with inconvenience and possible danger," he told the BBC's Breakfast with Frost
programme.

"Obviously in standing up to terrorism there is the danger of sacrifices of
lives, because to do anything other is to say that we will avoid the
difficulties and the chances of sacrifice and essentially capitulate to
terrorism.

"I don't believe we can do that."

As if to highlight his concerns, Whitehall and Parliament Square were evacuated
for nearly an hour by police and soldiers yesterday following reports of a
suspected car-bomb.

Mr Reid's warning that standing "shoulder to shoulder" with the US could be
costly came amid signs of disquiet among Labour MPs and party members at the way
Mr Blair has offered unconditional British support to the Bush administration.
The Prime Minister has also caused alarm within his party by considering the
possibility of curtailing next week's conference in Brighton in the light of
events across the Atlantic.

Mr Reid said reports that Labour was considering cancelling the conference were
"speculation".

Mr Blair, who spent the weekend at Chequers speaking to other world leaders who
are being urged to join the American-led coalition against Osama bin Laden, will
meet a cross-party group of MPs today.

The combined members of four Commons select committees - defence, foreign
affairs, home affairs and intelligence - will be briefed by Mr Blair in Downing
Street on his talks with President Bush in Washington last week and the
emergency European summit in Brussels on Friday.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              18 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

Call to join the euro

BYLINE: Reports by George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 176 words

THE Government should start actively preparing to join the euro to prevent the
British economy going into recession, Matthew Taylor, the Liberal Democrat
Treasury spokesman, will say today.

He will advocate the devaluation of sterling by about 10 per cent to enable it
to join the single currency at a competitive rate for British industry, boosting
exports and investment in Britain.

Mr Taylor will tell the conference that the current high pound-euro exchange
rate is increasing the risk of recession in Britain in the wake of the shocks to
the world financial system caused by the terrorist attacks.

He will also outline plans for a radical review of the financing of public
services. It would look at a mix of state funding and personal provision,
although Mr Kennedy rejected reports that the party would support the
introduction of charges for hospital treatment or seeing a family doctor.

However, the Lib Dems are likely to suggest that state provision should be
restricted in some areas, such as the state pension.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              19 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 24, 2001

Eleven hijackers were in the UK

BYLINE: Ben Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 362 words


ELEVEN of the 19 hijackers who launched the terrorist attacks in America passed
through Britain this year, the Daily Mail has learned.

Several of them were in the country as recently as three months ago, raising the
suspicion that the plot could have been hatched in this country.

FBI sources have revealed that the men flew to the U.S. separately at various
dates between January and June.

Their details have been passed to the British security services, who are trying
to discover exactly how long they spent and where they were living.

The 11 include men who were aboard each of the four hijacked flights.

FBI agents are attempting to establish their links with known contacts in
Britain and find out if terrorist sleeper cells are still in action here.

What the FBI does not know is precisely when they arrived in the UK.

Such was the level of planning for the coordinated hijackings that it is more
than likely that they arrived on fake passports and have, over the years,
assumed several different identities.

Cloned credit cards and mobile phones may also have been used and the
complexities of Arabic names to the untrained Western eye has also made the
police's task that much harder.

The presence of the hijackers in Britain was conclusively established from
documents and financial records, including credit cards, found at addresses in
Florida and California.

Phone records going back two years are being examined for links to Britain, as
are bank accounts, travel records and emails.

Last week the Mail's disclosure that up to seven of the terrorists may have
passed through the UK was confirmed by Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John
Stevens.

He has warned that although there is no specific intelligence at present, the
UK's special relationship with the U.S. makes it a likely target for a follow-up
attack.

The reality is, however, that levels of intelligence about Islamic terrorism are
desperately low in the UK and officers are only now beginning a desperate game
of catch-up.

The other eight hijackers are thought to have converged on the U.S. from
Switzerland, Germany and Saudi Arabia.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              20 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 24, 2001

Kennedy calls for caution

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 151 words


CHARLES Kennedy will today show the first signs of breaking the political accord
formed since the terrorist attacks on America.

In an emergency statement at the beginning of his party's conference in
Bournemouth, the Liberal Democrat leader will call for a 'measured and
constructive response' to the atrocities.

He will also criticise Tony Blair and George W. Bush for their rhetoric, saying:
'War is not the word, nor is crusade. Resolve is.' Mr Kennedy will call for a
more cautious approach.

He said yesterday that he 'fully supports' Mr Blair's diplomatic efforts, but
insisted: 'It is not a question of blank cheques between ourselves and the
British Government and it should not be a question of blank cheques between
Britain and the U.S.'

Asked if he would feel free to criticise any military action launched by Britain
and America, he said: 'I do reserve that right.'


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              21 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 24, 2001

Kennedy urges caution rather than crusade

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 270 words


CHARLES Kennedy will today show the first signs of breaking the political accord
formed since the terrorist attacks on America.

In an emergency statement at the beginning of his party's conference in
Bournemouth, the Liberal Democrat leader will call for a 'measured and
constructive response' to the atrocities.

He will also criticise Tony Blair and George W. Bush for their rhetoric, saying:
'War is not the word, nor is crusade. Resolve is.' The Prime Minister and the
U.S.

President have both used the word war to describe the international response to
the attacks, with Mr Bush describing it as a crusade.

Mr Kennedy will call for a more cautious approach to eradicating terrorism from
the world.

He stressed yesterday that he 'fully supports' Mr Blair's diplomatic efforts,
but insisted: 'It is not a question of blank cheques between ourselves and the
British Government and it should not be a question of blank cheques between
Britain and the U.S.' Asked if he would feel free to criticise any military
action launched by Britain and America, he said: 'I do reserve that right.' The
conference has been revised in the wake of the crisis.

Part of the change will see today's agenda beginning with an emergency motion
which will offer sympathy to the victims of the attacks.

Every day, the conference will make reference to the atrocities and the
international response, said a spokesman.

Controversial motions on pornography have been dropped, as has any
'triumphalism' said Mr Kennedy, following the LibDem election successes which
saw 52 MPs returned to Parliament in June.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              22 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

BUILD-UP GOES ON IN THE GULF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 186 words


THE military build-up in the Gulf continued apace yesterday as seven Tornado
warplanes flew out to the region from their base in Britain.

The Tornado GR-4 reconnaissance aircraft, each worth pounds 25million, started
leaving RAF Marham, Norfolk, at 8am.

The jets are due to join other British forces in a military exercise in Oman.

They are scheduled to spend the next eight weeks at the Thumrait air base in
south west Oman while taking part in the Saif Sareea II exercise.

It involves thousands of British servicemen and women and has been planned for
almost three years.

While not connected to the terrorist attacks, it is believed the exercise
aircraft could be called upon to join possible military action.

The exercise is aimed at testing Britain's ability to launch a Joint Rapid
Reaction Force - a concept developed during the 1998 Strategic Defence Review.

But an MoD spokeswoman said there had been "no discussions" about any of the
British forces joining the US deployment for Operation Infinite Justice.

She said: "The exercises in Oman are continuing exactly as planned."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              23 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

BUILD-UP GOES ON IN THE GULF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 173 words


THE military build-up in the Gulf continued apace yesterday as seven Tornado
warplanes flew out to the region from their base in Britain.

The Tornado GR-4 reconnaissance aircraft, each worth pounds 25million, started
leaving RAF Marham, Norfolk, at 8am. The jets are due to join other British
forces in a military exercise in Oman.

They are scheduled to spend the next eight weeks at the Thumrait air base in
south west Oman while taking part in the Saif Sareea II exercise.

It involves thousands of British servicemen and women and has been planned for
three years.

While not connected to the terrorist attacks, it is believed the exercise
aircraft could be called upon to join possible military action.

The exercise is aimed at testing Britain's ability to launch a Joint Rapid
Reaction Force - a concept developed during the 1998 Strategic Defence Review.

But an MoD spokeswoman said there had been "no discussions" about any of the
British forces joining the US deployment for Operation Infinite Justice.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              24 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 24, 2001

Blunkett faces fresh row as he considers ID card moves

BYLINE: David Taylor

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 532 words


THE Government was facing a fresh row over identity cards today after Home
Secretary David Blunkett said a compulsory scheme could be necessary in the
fight against terrorism.

Cards could incorporate hi-tech features such as fingerprint or iris recognition
to make them impossible to forge, he said during a television interview.
Opponents of the plan - which could cost more than £1 billion to set up - warned
that there was no evidence that bringing ID cards back for the first time in 50
years would do anything to heighten British security against the threat of
terrorism.

Describing Mr Blunkett's remarks as " misguided", Mark Littlewood, director of
campaigns at Liberty, said: "The problem with ID cards is they would harm civil
liberty here in the UK without minimising the risk to security of atrocities we
have seen in the US. We have got to get better at identifying the threat from a
tiny minority of suicidal bombers, without issuing 50 million ID cards and
spending God knows how much in police time and money monitoring who has them."

Home Office sources were eager to play down Mr Blunkett's commitment to the
idea, but he has made clear: "There are much broader issues about entitlement
and citizenship which we are looking at very seriously indeed."

The idea is certain to run into opposition across the political spectrum.

While ID cards would be a costly but effective way of preventing illegal
immigrants from gaining access to healthcare, schools, benefits or legal jobs,
they would not prevent a terrorist from entering Britain legally.

Under the 1951 Geneva Convention, the Government has a duty to allow in anyone
who claims political asylum.

A terrorist who claimed sanctuary in Britain would be entitled to remain here,
presumably with an ID card, while his case was being considered.

Police armed with new powers to demand an ID card from anyone living in Britain
would arguably be able to keep better checks on the whereabouts of a suspect.
But once in Britain and provided with an ID card, there would be little to
prevent a potential terrorist moving freely inside our borders. The introduction
of compulsory ID cards would also do nothing to deter " homegrown" terrorists.

Author and terrorism expert Michael Yardley warned against introducing
"draconian" security measures following the US terrorist attacks. "ID cards have
not prevented Eta terrorism in Spain," he said.

"They have not prevented serious terrorism in France, or indeed in Germany or
Italy in the past."

In March the Home Affairs Select Committee, having examined the prospects for
identity cards, rejected the notion. Instead it floated the idea of an
"entitlement card" for public services, which would mean anyone who wanted to
see a doctor or send their children to school would have to prove he was here
legally.

The Government, however, declined even to review the idea after Home Office
officials said the system would be too expensive and that there would be too
much potential for fraud.

There were also civil liberties concerns, leading to the conclusion that "a card
of this kind would raise issues of public acceptability".


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 24, 2001

SALES OF GAS MASKS SOAR AMID GERM ATTACK FEARS

BYLINE: BY MAURICE McLEOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 329 words


FEARS of biological and chemical attack on Britain have led to people buying gas
masks, protective suits and rations packs in their thousands.

Ministers warned last week that such an attack is their biggest fear, prompting
the public to rush out and protect themselves and their families.

Army surplus stores all over the country have found themselves inundated with
requests for protective equipment. One supplier, Springfield Army Stores, in
Staffordshire, has had to include a message about the use of nuclear, biological
and chemical (NBC) suits on its website because of the number of enquiries it is
getting from people across the country. The suits consist of hooded overalls,
protective boots and inner and outer gloves. The cost of the NBC suits - which
are standard issue to soldiers all over the world - can be as little as GBP 35,
with gas masks costing a further GBP 30.

Many people are claiming this is a small price to pay for protecting their
families from potential terrorist attacks.

Surplus and Adventure, an army surplus store in Worcestershire, has sold 600 gas
masks in the days since the US attack. It usually sells just 25 masks in a year.

Roger Tapply, who runs RDT Military which sells protective equipment, said:

"It has been absolutely crazy over the last week. Everything is selling out as
quickly as we get it. On a normal week we might sell 10 suits to paintballers,
but last week alone we received 60 orders.

The wholesalers themselves are even running out."

British army surplus stores are receiving orders from Americans because most US
stores are sold out.

RDT sells ex-military wear from all over Europe but the British NBC suits are by
far the most popular.

"The British NBC suit is the best in the world, " said Mr Tapply. "It will
protect you from just about anything that you are likely to encounter. I hope it
never happens but it would not take much to get hold of some pretty deadly
stuff."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              26 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 24, 2001

WORLD ON THE BRINK; BOYCOTT OF SHOPS IN THE TERROR

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 441 words


THE atrocities in America affected consumer confidence in Britain when the
economy was showing signs of an upward turn, the head of the Bank of England
admitted yesterday.

"We were all looking for a very gradual pick-up as we went into next year, "
said Sir Eddie George.

Instead, there was a sudden shock to the system. "For a couple of days people
simply didn't go into the shops, " he added. "We saw a very dramatic decline on
the Wednesday and Thursday. We saw a 30 per cent fall in retail sales."

Sir Eddie refused to rule out an economic recession in Britain, saying it was
"too soon" to predict whether it could be avoided.

The scale of the terrorist attacks would further dent business and consumer
confidence at a time when the world economy was already suffering a huge
slowdown, he said.

"These tragic developments couldn't have come at a worse time, " said Sir Eddie.
"They had an absolutely immediate impact in sentiment."

But the Governor of the Bank of England saw no reason to believe that the world
economy would plunge into "really serious decline" in the long term. "If you
look beyond the short term, there's no reason to think that the world is going
into a really serious decline, " he said.

He hinted that there may be further interest cuts on the way only days after
they were cut by the Bank of England by a quarter of a per cent following the
terror attacks in New York and Washington. In a TV interview on Breakfast With
Frost, he said:

"Frankly, it is too soon to tell about the short-term impact. Before the events
of September 11, this country was holding up rather better than elsewhere. I
think that is still the case, but all of us are watching intensively and will
take further action if necessary."

The 300-point drop in the FTSE 100 on Friday was mostly caused by fears that
military action would start at the weekend, he said.

Meanwhile, package holidays for Britons are set to soar by up to GBP 200 for a
family of four following the terrorist attacks in the US, experts warned.

With the average package price currently at GBP 500 per person, crippling
insurance costs and extra security could easily add 10 per cent to prices.

"Most of those who have already booked for the future are not cancelling their
trips, " said one travel expert. "But the medium to long-term prospects are the
most serious.

Insurance costs are going to go up three or four times as much as they are now."

Americans staying at home will seriously affect Britain's income from tourism.
Cancellation of the Ryder Cup has cost businesses around The Belfry GBP
60million in lost income.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              27 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: ECONOMY: GEORGE MOVES TO CALM FEARS AS FORECASTS FALL

BYLINE: Philip Thornton Economics Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words


THE GOVERNOR of the Bank of England moved to calm fears yesterday that Britain
was heading for a recession following the terror attacks on the US as City
analysts slashed their growth forecasts for next year.

Sir Edward George cautioned that it was "too soon to say" what was in store for
the British economy but said that high street sales had plunged by almost a
third in the days after the outrage.

He said the attacks "could not have happened at a worse time" and hinted that
the Bank was ready to cut interest rates when it meets next week. "The overall
impression is that we will see some weakening during the current quarter and
perhaps in the next quarter. Looking beyond that situation, it's very difficult
to see what's changed fundamentally."

His remarks came as a firm of economists said pounds 500bn - the equivalent of
half the entire output of Britain's economy - would be wiped off world growth
next year.

Sir Edward said there was an "absolutely immediate impact" on the confidence of
households. "It was shock. For a couple of days people did not go to the shops,"
he told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost. "That week there was a 30 per cent fall in
retail sales."

This startling news, which has been contradicted by the UK's major retailers in
recent days, will be fed into the information used by the Bank of England's
Monetary Policy Committee when it sets rates. The MPC will hear the Bank's
assessment of the impact on Friday, ahead of its formal meeting next Wednesday
and Thursday. "We'll be looking for what's happening in terms of the immediate
impact," Sir Edward said.

The Bank ordered a surprise quarter-point cut in rates last Tuesday - its fifth
so far this year - after the US Federal Reserve cut by half a point. UK rates
are now at 4.75 per cent, their lowest since 1964.

Amid growing talk among economists in the City of London that the terrorist
attacks might plunge the world into recession, Sir Edward tried to calm fears,
saying it was too soon to say.

His comments were echoed by Gordon Brown, the Chancellor of the Exchequer, who
was in Belgium for a meeting with European Union finance ministers. "We face
these troubled times in a better position than 10 or 20 years ago," Mr Brown
said. However, he admitted the impact had been "very severe indeed, in America
and other parts of the world".

In a report to be published today, the Centre for Economics and Business
Research said the terror attacks had forced it to cut its forecasts for world
and UK growth next year.

It expects the UK to grow just 1.3 per cent compared to its previous forecast of
2.2 per cent. This would wipe pounds 12.6bn off annual output. The Bank of
England will cut rates to 3.5 per cent in response, it said. It cut world growth
forecasts from 3.0 to 0.8 per cent, which would wipe $ 680bn (pounds 475bn) off
output.

Douglas McWilliams, the report's author, said: "The world economy has been dealt
a blow which will depress world growth for nine months and possibly for longer."

In the City, investment bankers at Salomon Smith Barney cut forecasts for next
year to 2.0 from 2.25 per cent while Dresdner Kleinworth Wasserstein cut growth
in 2002 to 1.8 from 2.7 per cent. Lehman Brothers are set to forecast just 0.6
per cent. The Treasury's current forecast is for between 2.25 and 2.75 per cent
but this will probably be revised down to a range of 1.75-2.25 per cent in
November when it publishes the pre-Budget report.

The gloom has been compounded by the plunge in share values around the world.
The London stock market tumbled 10 per cent last week while, in the US, the Dow
Jones fell 14.3 per cent, its worst week since 1933.

Sir Edward said the markets would remain volatile because of nervousness over
the military response. "That's going to be the next concern," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

BRITISH FORCES GATHER IN GULF;
 25 BRITISH SHIPS DEPLOYED IN REGION AS STRAW FLIES TO TEHRAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 516 words


A MASSIVE build-up of Britain's armed forces was gathering in the Gulf today.

They are in Oman ahead of two-week war games organised well before the terror
attacks in the US.

But Britain has offered to participate in a force being assembled by the US
which has been reported to be deploying at least 630 warplanes to the region.
Meanwhile, In Kabul the Taliban defence minister said today that America has no
right to attack Afghanistan but that the militia has all the weapons and
ammunition it needs to fight off ground or air assaults.

"Around 300,000 experienced mujahedeen are guarding the borders and all other
important places in Afghanistan, " said Mullah Obaidullah Akhund. He also said
many Taliban supporters are joining the militia.

Today, another British aircraft carrier passed through the Suez Canal to join a
group of some 20 British ships gathering in the Gulf.

The aircraft carrier HMS Illustrious, the Trafalgar submarine, the destroyer
Nottingham and supply ship Fort Victoria sailed through the canal today.

A total of 25 British ships are expected to be deployed in the Gulf region,
along with ground troops and warplanes. It is the biggest deployment of Royal
Navy ships since the 1982 Falklands War.

Some 14,000 Omani soldiers and 24,000 British soldiers are expected to
participate in the war games, as well as hundreds of warplanes and warships, in
a region 261 miles south of the capital, Muscat.

Meanwhile, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw today set off for Iran to underpin the
coalition against terrorism.

The trip to Tehran is the first by a British foreign secretary since the Islamic
revolution in 1979. It is part of a four-day trip to the Middle East including
visits to Jordan, Israel, the Palestinian Authority and Egypt.

Mr Straw was expected to use the trip to publicise a government offer to provide
pounds 25m of aid to help neighbouring countries deal with growing numbers of
refugees leaving Afghanistan.

British ministers argue that those refugees are fleeing the tyranny of
Afghanistan's Taliban rulers and a retaliatory strike by the United States.

Mr Straw's trip to the region was intended to reinforce Arab support for the
anti-terror coalition, both by demonstrating a willingness to foster better
relations with states such as Iraq - long regarded as a pariah by the West - and
by giving a boost to the Middle East peace process.

The West knows that it will have a better chance of keeping Arab states on board
during its war against terrorism if the Palestinian-Israeli conflict can be
resolved, or subdued.

In addition, Mr Straw was seeking to convey the message that the forthcoming
retaliatory action was to be directed at the terrorists and their backers,
rather than representing the start of a "crusade" by the West against Islam.

Although Iran has ruled out allowing allied aircraft to fly over its territory
for any strikes against Afghanistan, it can make a significant contribution to
the allies' effort through helpful gestures such as receiving Mr Straw, and by
remaining neutral.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: STRIKE FORCE: Members of No 1 Squadron of the RAF on exercise in; Oman
SHIPPING OUT: The warship Southampton passes an Egyptian fisherman along the
Suez Canal FLYING OUT: Jack Straw

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              29 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 24, 2001

Kennedy blasts Bush's war cry'

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 184 words



CHARLES Kennedy today warned Tony Blair against using words which could incite
violence'' as Britain geared up to joint military retaliation over the US terror
attacks.

In a consultation with Mr Blair, the Lib Dem leader offered his party's support
to the Prime Minister for military action, which he said was inevitable and
inescapable''.

But he was critical of the tone of US President George Bush in the wake of the
terrorist atrocities.  Mr Kennedy said: War is not the word, nor is crusade.
Resolve is. We have got to find an approach that begins to address the roots of
such evil.''

At his party's conference in Bournemouth, delegates were reflecting the mood of
their leader as American aircraft and ships continued to build up in the Gulf.
During a debate on a motion expressing sympathy for the people of the US,
foreign affairs spokesman Menzies Campbell said the purpose of any military
response must be justice and not revenge.

We shall not root out terrorism without an effective system of international
justice,'' said Mr Campbell.



LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              30 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: CONFLICT EFFECTS: MEMORIAL FOR THE UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 51 words


A MEMORIAL to the victims of the US terror attacks is to be built in Britain,
the Government said last night.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said it is important families have a focus for
their grief.

She added: "I want to ensure everything that can be done for bereaved families
is being done."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              31 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 24, 2001

Bank of England notes changes in world markets;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 201 words


BANK of England Governor Eddie George predicted yesterday that the US terror
attacks should not cause a "really serious decline" in the global economy.

Sir Eddie acknowledged the prospect of possible further cuts in the interest
rate, which would shore up the British economy, following a 0.25 per cent cut
days after the atrocities.

But he cautioned that it was too early to judge how long the uncertainty, which
has been seen in world markets, would last, adding that much would depend on the
nature of the US military response.

The Bank of England's Monetary Policy Committee is due to meet on October 3 to
decide whether to cut rates again to stimulate consumer demand, aid
manufacturing and keep the economy buoyant.

However, the Centre for Economic and Business Research warned that the US
terrorist attacks may cause Britain's output to plunge by nearly GBP 13 billion.

The think-tank predicted that British GDP, the total value of goods and services
produced, would drop by 1.2 per cent or GBP 12.6 billion in 2002.

Report author Douglas McWilliams said that although the outlook is highly
uncertain the attack would depress growth for at "least nine months or longer."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              32 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

What the Sunday papers say

SECTION: Business

LENGTH: 547 words


SUNDAY TIMES

Base rates in Britain are set to drop to 4 per cent as the Bank of England and
other central banks act to head off global recession.

Profits at investment banks are evaporating in the aftermath of the US terrorist
attacks.

The collapse in share prices has left some insurance companies in breach of
their solvency requirements.

Britain's airlines are to lobby US and European governments to deregulate and
liberalise the industry.

Share tips: Buy Celltech, Securicor, Fibernet; Hold Arcadia

SUNDAY TELEGRAPH

The US attacks will cost the UK economy Pounds 12.6 billion in reduced output
next year.

Munich Re and Swiss Re, the world's two biggest reinsurance groups, are believed
to have begun selling off billions of pounds worth of shares. The move is
expected to send world stock markets into a further nose dive.

HG Capital, the private equity firm, has tabled a Pounds 160 million offer for
UK Coal, Britain's largest coal producer.

Share tips: Buy Cox Insurance, Scottish & Newcastle, Systems Union, Telecom
Plus, Ashtenne Holdings; Sell TBI

SUNDAY BUSINESS

The Financial Services Authority is expected to ease solvency requirements that
have left insurers obliged to sell billions of pounds worth of blue chip shares.

British Airways is considering drastic reductions in its services at Gatwick and
could pull out of the airport altogether.

Zurich Financial Services, formerly Zurich Re, is set to postpone the $ 1.8
billion flotation of its reinsurance operation, Converium, in the wake of the
downturn in the equity markets.

OBSERVER

British Airways is ready to raise a Pounds 2 billion survival package if it
faces financial collapse as the devastating impact of the US terrorist attacks
reverberates around the airline industry.

The US economy is facing further bad news in coming weeks as investment banks
prepare to cut thousands more jobs and earnings fall dramatically.

America is to lead an unprecedented money-laundering crackdown on the world's
tax havens.

INDEPENDENT ON SUNDAY

Sir Richard Branson has acknowledged that Virgin Atlantic may suspend some
transatlantic flights, but has denied that his business empire is in trouble.

Shell, the oil company, has been accused of "inconsistencies" and
"contradictions" in a presentation to City analysts.

Cruise operators are facing a huge rise in insurance premiums because of fears
that liners could be a target for terrorists.

MAIL ON SUNDAY

Crucial paperwork for insuring the World Trade Centre had not been completed at
the time of the terrorist attacks, paving the way for a huge raft of lawsuits.

British Telecom is facing a potential Pounds 720 million liability arising from
its Concert joint venture with AT&T of America.

Tens of thousands of jobs are at risk in Britain after moves by the world's
airlines to cut back operations.

SUNDAY EXPRESS

City traders believe Britain is in the grip of the worst bear market since the
oil shock of the mid-1970s.

Equitable Life policyholders could face enormous exit penalties if last week's
proposed compromise deal goes ahead.

Britain's intelligence agency MI6 has joined the investigation into suspicious
share transactions ahead of the US attacks.


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 243 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                               September 24, 2001

Airport chiefs deny security lapse.

BYLINE: David Wells (author email david.wells@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 323 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove


Gatwick Airport today defended its security after claims that loopholes left it
open to attack from terrorists. Security has been stepped up following a review
of procedures at Britain's second biggest airport in the wake of the atrocities
in America thought to have claimed more than 6,000 lives. Terminal manager Ian
Neave said the risk of terrorists carrying out a similar strike at Gatwick was
minimised by the strict procedures followed by staff at the airport. He spoke
out in defence of the airport's security after a Sunday newspaper reported
Gatwick workers were alarmed at lax systems which could allow terrorists through
the net. Criticisms from baggage handlers included concerns that staff
identification cards were seldom checked and that workers did not have strict
enough screening when they arrived for shifts. Mr Neave said: "I'm disappointed
if any staff who work at Gatwick are saying security is lax. "It is very strict.
We work to a very strict Government standard on security systems. They were
reviewed and upgraded after the incidents in America. "My company regarded
security as the highest priority even before these incidents and they are doubly
strict since the events." He said all staff underwent a vetting procedure before
they were presented with an airside pass and had to undergo a rigid screening
process. "They are monitored and checked once they are airside and must be
prepared to show their passes at any time." Airport managers would welcome new
technology called for by airline pilots. Many pilots have pressed the Government
to bring forward the new system for British airports which they believe could
prevent future terrorist hijacks. The system, developed by QinetiQ, the
public-private partnership which took on much of the work of the Defence
Evaluation and Research Agency, could recognise suspect passengers as they
checked in at airports and before they boarded their planes.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              34 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 24, 2001, Monday

ANTI-TERRORIST OFFICERS GRANTED MORE TIME TO QUESTION SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Dylan Dronfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 573 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers were last night questioning three people in Britain
about the terror attacks in the United States after being granted a custody
time-limit extension by magistrates, Scotland Yard said.

The three people - two men and a woman - were arrested in raids in Berkshire and
Birmingham on Friday.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said an extension had been granted by magistrates to
keep the three in custody at police stations in central London until Wednesday.
The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, 29, was released without
charge.

Mr Raissi was last night recuperating at his home in Harlech Gardens, Hounslow,
west London. His wife Noor angrily denied he had anything to do with terrorism
and said the couple were awaiting news of her husband's 27-year-old brother
Lotfi, from Colnbrook, near Slough, who was being questioned by officers along
with his wife Sonia, 25.

Under the provisions of the Terrorist Act 2000 the couple and a third man - who
is in his 40s from Birmingham - can be kept in custody for up to a week subject
to approved extensions.

The four people were arrested in raids on Friday and detectives have until this
Friday to question the remaining three should they successfully apply for a
further extension.

Mrs Raissi, who neighbours say has an 18-month-old daughter, said, "He's been
released and no charges have been brought, he's innocent. It's ridiculous. He
doesn't have a clue what it's all about. He doesn't have anything to do with
terrorism.

"We have a normal life and now it has been turned upside down."

Mrs Raissi, who works for Saudi Airlines, said they had been waiting to hear
when they could speak to or visit her brother-in-law, Lotfi.

She added: "We have been waiting for a call from the police today but we still
haven't heard anything. We still don't know what to do, we don't know what's
going on. It's very worrying."

Mrs Raissi said family and friends were comforting her and her husband.

She said she never thought her job as a lounge assistant with Saudi Airlines
would lead to her husband being implicated in terrorism.

"I liked meeting the people and that was it, " she said. "I didn't think it
would come to this. I don't know what will happen to my job."

US to publish its evidence

THE United States will soon share evidence with its allies detailing how Osama
bin Laden is tied to the September 11 attacks in New York and Washington.

Secretary of State Colin Powell said yesterday, "In the near future we will be
able to put out a document linking him to this attack."

Powell and Condoleezza Rice, President George Bush's national security adviser,
said the administration had made contact with Syria and Iran, two countries the
US has accused of sponsoring terrorism, about helping to fight terrorism.

But Powell and Rice said terrorist-sponsoring countries must end all support or
face more penalties.

"We are not going to declare that there are good terrorists and bad terrorists,
" Rice said on Fox News. "If you sponsor terrorism, you're hostile to the United
States."

Powell said dismantling bin Laden's al-Qaida network was the first goal but
suggested any military action would not be on the scale of the Gulf War.

"Let's not assume there will be a large-scale move, " Powell told NBC's Meet the
Press. "I don't think we should even consider a large-scale war at this point."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              35 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 24, 2001

Police extend quiz of terror suspects

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 227 words


ANTI-TERRORIST officers were last night continuing to question three people in
Britain about the terror attacks in the U.S. after being granted a custody time
limit extension by magistrates.

The three people - two men and a woman - were arrested in raids in Berkshire and
Birmingham on Friday.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said an extension had been granted by magistrates
overnight to keep the three in custody at police stations in central London
until Wednesday.

The extension came as a fourth suspect, Mohamed Raissi, 29, was released without
charge.

Mr Raissi was last night recuperating at his home in Harlech Gardens, Hounslow,
West London after his release on Saturday. His wife Noor angrily denied that he
had anything to do with terrorism and said the couple were awaiting news of her
husband's 27-yearold brother Lotfi, from Colnbrook, near Slough, Berkshire, who
was being questioned by anti-terrorist officers along with his wife Sonia, 25.

Mrs Raissi, who neighbours say has an 18-month-old daughter, said: "He's been
released and no charges have been brought, he's innocent.

"It's ridiculous. He doesn't have a clue what it's all about. He doesn't have
anything to do with terrorism.

"We have a normal life and now it has been turned upside down.

"We still don't know what to do, we don't know what's going on."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              36 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 24, 2001

20 pc drop in tourism;
 Operation Infinite Justice

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 66 words


TOURISM bosses yesterday predicted there will be a 20 per cent drop in visitors
to Britain this year following the U.S. terror attacks.

The atrocities, coupled with the recent foot-andmouth outbreak, could see up to
five million people stay away in 2001, said Richard Tobias, of the British
Incoming Tour Operators Association.

He called on the Government to provide "serious funds".

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              37 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: ECONOMIC FALL-OUT - 'DON'T PANIC' LEADERS TELL THE MARKETS

BYLINE: Colin Brown Political Editor Brown: world is in a better state to
withstand attacks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 527 words


Chancellor Gordon Brown and President George Bush sought to reassure world
markets yesterday that the global economy was "fundamentally strong" amid fears
of further falls in share prices tomorrow.

A brutal week of selling on Wall Street and in the City, company layoffs and
airline cutbacks was capped when Ernst Welteke, the president of the Bundesbank,
said an investigation by the German central bank pointed strongly to "terrorism
insider trading", fuelling suspicions that the terrorists sold shares short in
airlines and insurance companies before they attacked.

President Bush said: "The terrorists who attacked the United States on September
11 targeted our economy as well as our people. They brought down a symbol of
American prosperity but they could not touch its source."

"Our economy has had a shock," he said in his weekly radio address, noting many
workers lost their jobs, especially in the airline and hospitality industries,
in restaurants and in tourism, as companies struggled to remain afloat despite
Americans' fear of travelling.

"Many Americans have also seen the value of their stocks decline," Mr Bush said.
"Yet, for all these challenges, the American economy is fundamentally strong."

The Chancellor also sought to steady markets in London before they open
tomorrow. Britain and the world were in a better state to withstand the economic
shock of the terror attacks than for many years, Mr Brown said. "I think we can
approach the decisions we have got to take with greater resolution and greater
expectations than we might have 10 or 20 years ago.

"Firstly, because inflation is low in Britain and public finances are sound.
Secondly, because around Europe and the rest of the world, inflation is
generally low and in most countries public finances are sound.

"Thirdly, because we are seeing great co-operation and decisive action
internationally on interest rates and on getting the markets moving and on
dealings with the oil-producing countries.

EU leaders also issued a joint statement on Friday stressing the underlying
strength of the European economy, but the expressions of support may backfire
when trading opens, by highlighting the fears that share selling could lead to
stagnation.

In spite of the reassurances, senior ministers believe Mr Brown will be forced
to admit in his Pre-Budget Report in November that growth will be well below his
target of around 2.5 per cent. That could force the Chancellor to raid his
reserves to plug holes in his estimates. Tax receipts could be lower than
anticipated, and welfare spending could rise if unemployment begins to increase.

"Gordon is being a bit like King Canute, but he will have to act," one
ministerial colleague said. Senior ministers said Mr Brown would not slash
public spending, however bad the economic picture looks now. "We were elected on
a promise to increase spending on schools and health. If we broke our promises,
we could say goodbye to a third term," said one.

John Redwood, a former Tory shadow cabinet minister, said Parliament should be
recalled to debate the impact on the economy of the terrorist crisis.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              38 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: SHUTTLE DIPLOMACY'LONGEST WEEK' FOR BLAIR AS HE DRUMS UP SUPPORT
FOR BUSH

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Tony Blair and George Bush at the White House on Thursday.
The; President called Britain a 'true friend' of America AFP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 489 words


As Tony Blair flew to Washington on Thursday, he was given an hour-long briefing
by four of Britain's senior military planners and intelligence chiefs. There is
little doubt about what they discussed: Britain's role in America's military
retaliation in Afghanistan aimed at Osama bin Laden. Significantly, the men from
the Ministry of Defence stayed behind in Washington for further meetings with
their US counterparts while Mr Blair flew to Brussels for Friday night's
emergency meeting of European Union leaders.

It was surely Mr Blair's longest week since becoming Prime Minister. Since last
Monday he has met or telephoned no less than 26 world leaders and has played a
crucial role in rallying support behind the US. He travelled more than 9,000
miles in three days as he went to America then straight on to Germany, France
and Belgium.

Was such a punishing schedule really necessary in the age of secure telephone
lines and instant communications? Mr Blair's answer is that we are not living in
normal times in the wake of the terrorist attacks on America. "There is a
non-stop conversation going on between world leaders," his official spokesman
said yesterday. "If you can do more of that face-to- face, it is no bad thing."

Although the Brussels meeting promised strong backing for the US riposte, most
of the 15 EU countries will decide to stick with words rather than military
deeds. The British Government has no such reservations, and Mr Blair's dinner at
the White House on Thursday discussed the precise timing and scale of the
response. "There was a fair amount of fine-tuning," one Downing Street source
said yesterday.

His personal contacts allowed Mr Blair to speak with authority when he told
President George Bush: "The coalition is widening and deepening." It was a
message the President wanted to hear, and he hailed Mr Blair as a "true friend"
of America.

The key question is whether the Prime Minister used his persuasive skills to
talk the US out of an immediate overreaction. Downing Street dismisses the idea,
saying it was President Bush who decided it was good to talk before acting.

However, there is little doubt that Mr Blair encouraged building the widest
possible international coalition against terrorism before the military strikes
begin. "We are not against hard action," said a Blair aide. "But you enhance
your ability to act by talking calmly and making overtures to the Arab and
Muslim world. You have to have a diplomatic offensive to support your military
strategy."

At the end of a gruelling week, Mr Blair knows that this is only the start. A
long, perhaps indefinite, war against an elusive enemy is about to begin. There
will be setbacks and tragedies. Even the first US strikes will be only an
opening gambit.

"There will be no quick fixes, no knock-out blow," said one Blair adviser.
"People have got to recognise that we are in for the long haul."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              39 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: DON'T PANIC: SURVIVING THE CRISIS

BYLINE: Jason Nisse And Colin Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 768 words


Economy

Chancellor Gordon Brown and President George Bush yesterday sought to reassure
world markets that the global economy was "fundamentally strong" amid fears of
further falls in share prices tomorrow.

After a brutal week of selling on Wall Street, company layoffs and airline
cutbacks, President Bush said in his weekly radio address: "The terrorists who
attacked the United States on September 11 targeted our economy as well as our
people. They brought down a symbol of American prosperity but they could not
touch its source. Our economy has had a shock. Yet the American economy is
fundamentally strong."

Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, also sought to steady markets in London before
opening tomorrow. He said that Britain and the world were in a better state to
withstand the economic shock of the terror attacks than for many years.

"Firstly, because inflation is low in Britain and public finances are sound.

"Secondly, because around Europe and the rest of the world, inflation is
generally low and in most countries public finances are sound and therefore we
look at the future from that base.

"Thirdly, because we are seeing great co-operation internationally on interest
rates and on getting the markets moving and on dealings with the oil-producing
countries. Now we are fighting money-laundering. We are seeing a great deal of
co-operation."

EU leaders also issued a joint statement on Friday stressing the underlying
strength of the European economy, but the expressions of support may backfire
when trading opens, by highlighting the fears that share selling could lead to
stagnation.

Tourism

The tourism minister Kim Howells has scheduled an emergency summit to discuss
the latest crisis in an industry already struggling to recover from the foot and
mouth outbreak.

The British Tourist Authority, which promotes the UK overseas, says that the
terrorist attacks could cause a 20 per cent drop in visitors. Some overseas
bookings for hotels and conferences have already been cancelled and the
projected losses in the wake of the World Trade Centre bombing are thought to be
heading for pounds 500m.

But ministers are ruling out any comprehensive aid, like the subsidies to
farmers.

The US is Britain's most important inbound tourism market, contributing more
than pounds 2.5bn a year. Selfridges says that the terrorist attack in New York
has cost it pounds 500,000 in lost trade.

Half the British travellers who had booked holidays to the United States before
last week have cancelled or postponed their trips, according to estimates by
tour operators.

Security

An extra 1,500 police were patrolling the streets of London yesterday after
warnings that the capital could be the next target.

Security around major nuclear installations has been tightened, new anti-
terrorism powers are being drafted and up-dated plans have been produced in case
of attacks using chemical or biological weapons.

Events

A number of public buildings have been withdrawn from this weekend's Open House
event, as London remains on high-security alert.

BBC Broadcasting House, the Public Record Office and Horse Guards stayed closed,
along with the East London Mosque.

Hillary Clinton has cancelled a speech that she was to make in Edinburgh this
Friday to Scottish women parliamentarians.

Many of the celebrations surrounding London Fashion Week were cancelled,
although the majority of the shows went ahead. The Ryder Cup golf competition,
due to take place at The Belfry next weekend, has been postponed for a year.

The 1960s boy band The Monkees has cancelled a visit to the UK, and the Manic
Street Preachers are reported to have scrapped next month's European tour.

Entertainment

Arnold Schwarzenegger personally moved to suspend the release of his latest
action movie Collateral Damage which features a CIA operation and a band of
terrorists. Men in Black 2 is also being reworked as it involved a struggle with
aliens near the World Trade Center, and a trailer for next year's Spiderman
film, in which a huge web is suspended between the towers has been withdrawn.

The disaster has led to drastic changes in a number of computer games with
releases suspended so that New York scenes, the World Trade Center and
terrorists can be erased. Microsoft has announced that it will be removing the
World Trade Center from its next-generation Flight Simulator 2002, after a
number of US networks demonstrated how it was possible to crash into the towers
on existing versions. WH Smith has decided to stop stocking the game.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

BRITAIN DANGEROUSLY UNPREPARED FOR CHEMICAL OR BIOLOGICAL ATTACK

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 371 words


Britain's emergency planning officers have warned ministers the country is ill
-prepared to cope with a chemical or biological terrorist attack in spite of the
heightened fears of such an event after the World Trade Centre atrocity.

A secret meeting in Whitehall was held on Friday to put Britain's emergency
services on full alert for the nation to withstand a mass terrorist attack. A
new national civil emergencies agency is being set up to handle the threat

However, the Independent on Sunday has learned that emergency planning officers,
based at local authorities around Britain, complained that central Government
has been denying them any specialist information on how to make contingency
plans for chemical or biological attacks.

Their protests raise doubts about whether Britain could cope with a mass attack
on the population by terrorists. The Emergency Planning Society, which
represents more than 80 per cent of professionals in the field, revealed that
Britain's civil defence budget had collapsed from pounds 25.1m in 1991-1992
after the Gulf War to pounds 14.1m in 2000-2001, a fall of 44 per cent.

The number of emergency planning officers has fallen by more than 50 per cent in
some cities and counties. Legislation to cope with national disasters and
emergencies was last revised in 1948.

The report, commissioned by the Cabinet Office warned the Government that "there
is a danger" that emergency planning in England and Wales will degenerate into
"a patchwork of inconsistent policies and programmes".

Friday's meeting considered the nation's response to chemical and biological
weapons and UK's resilience to mass terrorism. Officials drew up a list of
services and supplies without which normal British life could not function.
Those attending included London Underground officials, police and fire chiefs,
emergency planners, Ministry of Defence staff, Food Standards Agency officials,
and security experts from key industries.

Hospitals last week were put on alert and told to upgrade their existing major
incident contingency plans. Since the US terrorist attacks, Health Secretary
Alan Milburn has set up a contigency planning unit to prepare for mass
casualties.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              41 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               September 23, 2001

Comment: Leading article: Keep the home fires burning: Labour still has to meet
it promises

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 549 words


BRITAIN'S 11-YEAR-OLDS will almost certainly not achieve their promised targets
in English, maths and science at Key Stage 2 next year. John Hume, inspirational
leader of the Catholic SDLP, has announced his retirement. Lord Cullen has made
detailed recommendations about the future regulation of rail safety in the light
of the Paddington tragedy. And Gavyn Davies, a multimillionaire financier with
links to the Labour Party, has been appointed BBC chairman. Has anyone noticed?

Of course, the terrorist attacks on the United States have put into perspective
many of our everyday distractions. That may be a good thing. The school year has
begun relatively smoothly. Schools struggled to fill vacancies, with
unprecedented overseas recruitment, but much of the hysteria about closed
classrooms and children sent home turned out to be just that, hysteria.

However, there are domestic dangers too, when global events overshadow
everything else. Not only do we need cool assessment of domestic responses to
the attacks. Support for identity cards needs to be treated, for example, with
the same strenuous scepticism that has seen the idea dismissed in the past. But
our greater challenge now is to maintain as much normal political discourse as
possible during what could prove to be an indefinitely extended international
crisis. A permanent opportunity for government and business to replicate the old
political trick of rushing out bad news on budget day might otherwise prove too
tempting.

The Government has already absented itself from public debate for three months,
essentially frivolously, to give the Conservative Party maximum opportunity to
embarrass itself. Iain Duncan Smith's keenness to suspend party confrontation is
laudable, but preserves his bizarre new front bench team from scrutiny too. Both
parties are now suggesting they might curtail their annual party conferences.

While the Government's first priority now is certainly security and the
international response to terrorism, it will be judged in 2005 on the mandate
which it sought in June: to reform and modernise Britain's crumbling public
infrastructure. Tony Blair has excelled on the world stage, but the present
crisis is unlikely to do any more than Kosovo to define him domestically. Having
failed so far to explain clearly what its vision of private involvement in the
public sector involves, Labour still risks the impression that its historic
second term stalled on the starting grid.

Business should not be let off the hook by the international situation either.
The economic troubles of British Airways, for example, stem from management
deficiencies over many years. BA has now rushed cap-in-hand to the Government
but was facing heavy losses long before the US attacks. Bailing it out would be
rewarding failure.

So the first party conference season of this parliamentary term should go ahead.
And it should not be confined to debating the international crisis. Our
political system offers far too few opportunities for participation and debate.
If we cancel politics, government will not stop: it will simply go on
unscrutinised, in an era when we no longer believe that the gentlemen in
Whitehall know best. We must uphold the values of democracy on the home front
too.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

THE WORLD FIGHTS BACK: PRIME MINISTER TONY BLAIR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 641 words


TONY Blair is desperate to ensure Osama Bin Laden does not succeed in creating
rifts between ordinary Muslims and people in the West. So here, he has written a
vital message stressing that every peace-loving citizen knows that the American
atrocities were carried out by evil fanatics and that no blame can ever be
attributed to decent Muslims, Islam and their friends.

PEOPLE across our country - and across the world - have been united in their
shock, disbelief and revulsion at the terrorist attacks in the United States
last week.

Communities, countries and faiths have come together in condemnation of those
responsible for this evil and in sympathy and sorrow for the thousands of
victims,

The scale of the catastrophe has been difficult to comprehend. The loss of life
has been enormous.

Thousands of heartbroken families - not just in America but in every corner of
our globe - are grieving for the loss of their loved ones.

I'm afraid that they include hundreds of families here in Britain. There is no
doubt that this is the worst terrorist outrage involving British citizens since
the Second World War.

The victims of these indiscriminate terrorist attacks by fanatics posing as
self-proclaimed Muslim fundamentalists were innocent men, women and children of
many, many nationalities and of all faiths.

Such acts of despicable cruelty are, I know, wholly contrary to the Islamic
faith as Muslim leaders and clerics here in Britain have made clear.

Barbarism of the kind we have just witnessed is totally foreign to the true
spirit and values of Islam which puts so much stress on tolerance and respect
for human life.

It is vital that our Muslim citizens are assured that the vast majority of
decent people in Britain realise that neither they nor Islam is in any way
responsible for what happened in the United States last week.

Those responsible are not communities nor religions but fanatical individuals.

Blaming Islam is as ludicrous as blaming Christianity for loyalist attacks on
Catholics or nationalist attacks on Protestants in Northern Ireland.

On the contrary, we know that the overwhelming majority of Muslims totally
condemn these atrocities as the strong statement of the Muslim Council of
Britain last week made clear, denouncing the "senseless and evil acts that appal
all people of conscience".

It's why Muslim states are among those helping to build the international
coalition to bring to justice those responsible for these terrorist attacks and
to work together to prevent such atrocities in the future.

Terrorism of this kind knows no mercy, no pity nor national borders.

It is also an attack not just on innocent people but on the values of tolerance,
freedom and democracy that underpin our way of life. So the international
community is coming together to tackle this collective threat to our security,
our nations and our values.

We need to identify the groups behind terrorism of this kind, how they operate,
how they move about the world, how they are financed and how they are supported.

We must also show we will not tolerate those states which harbour the terrorist
groups.

We must act carefully but with real resolve.

Despite the scale of the tragedy there has been no rush to retaliate by the
United States.

Instead the US deserves credit, at a time of tremendous national emotion, for
patience and care as it has gathered together - with help from intelligence
sources round the world - the evidence which reveals the people and groups
behind last week's attacks.

That must continue just as we will continue patiently building the international
coalition of the civilised countries of the world to hold to account those
responsible for last week's mass murder and to dismantle the machinery of
terrorism which made it possible.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              43 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                               September 23, 2001

Britiain in state of high alert

LENGTH: 287 words


BRITAIN should be on the "highest possible" alert, amid growing fears of a
second wave of attacks, terrorism experts have warned.

An extra 1,500 police officers are on the streets of London this weekend, after
senior Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama
bin Laden's Al Qaeda terror network.

And, in the US, the FBI was bracing itself for possible further disasters, amid
reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights for yesterday.

An FBI spokesman, said: "We can't rule out the possibility of further terrorist
activity, but we aren't saying anything specific about dates - we are just
urging people to be cautious."

Earlier, this week ,US Senate Intelligence Committee chairman, Bob Graham, said
the suicide hijackings, on September 11, were part of a larger plan of attacks.

And, Britain's most senior police officer, Scotland Yard Commissioner, Sir John
Stevens, has warned that the next biggest target, after the US, would be London.

His warnings were echoed by Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre For
The Study of Terrorism and Political Violence, at St Andrew's University.

He said: "As we tend to be a particularly close ally of the US, we would be wise
to be on alert, because we are not immune from these kind of attacks.

"We have to recognise there are cells operating far away from bin Laden's base.

"And, we have to remember that they have attacked embassies, shipping and
military targets."

Fears that fresh attacks could take the same form as the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon grew, after it emerged that the FBI's "watch
-list" of suspected terrorists, included 37 registered pilots.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              44 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

IT'S OPEN FOR BUSINESS

BYLINE: By Mark Fleming

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 90

LENGTH: 272 words


THE Royal and Ancient have vowed to do whatever it takes to ensure that next
year's Open goes ahead after the postponement of the Ryder Cup at The Belfry.

Organisers will bolster security to convince American players to make the trip
for the event, scheduled for July 18-21 at Muirfield next year.

It will the first time the American star golfers play in Britain after the
recent attacks on New York and Washington.

The R&A are prepared to meet the extra cost of increasing security and are
confident they can do so after signing a new GBP 30million, five-year TV deal
with the BBC. They will need to spend a big slice of that to succeed in
persuading top players, such as Tiger Woods and Open champion David Duval, to
fly to Britain.

Open championship secretary David Hill said: "We will take every precaution that
the police advise."

The US PGA have now announced increased security at all their events while the
International Olympic Committee have tightened security before next year's
Winter Games at Salt Lake City.

The decision to postpone the Ryder Cup has attracted one critic.

South Africa's Gary Player said: "It plays into the hands of terrorists. I agree
that the Ryder Cup needed to be postponed. I disagree that it should have been
delayed for a year."

He received little backing from Woods, who supports the delay.

The world No1 has been quick to offer support to victims of the terrorist
attacks.

Woods has made a short video for the employees of American Express, one of his
main sponsors, offering his condolences.

He said: "I just wanted them to know how sorry I was."

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              45 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

FINANCIAL EXPRESS :; MI6 IN PROBE TO ROOT OUT TERRORISTS

BYLINE: By Mark Watts

SECTION: FINANCE; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 350 words


BRITAIN'S intelligence agency MI6 has joined the investigation into suspicious
share transactions before the devastating terrorist attacks in America.

The Secret Intelligence Service, better known as MI6, is using agents in the
banking system to help trace anyone who profited from "shorting", where profits
are made when share prices fall.

Big-name banks - including Nomura, Deutsche and Merrill Lynch - are thought to
be embroiled in the investigation. Banking sources said they are co-operating
because they may have unwittingly carried out trades with possible terrorist
connections.

One senior banker said: "Terrorists may have used the same banks which suffered
in New York to make millions."

Associates of Osama Bin Laden, prime suspect for the attacks, are feared to have
carried out the "shorting" through a maze of middlemen, brokers and banks.

The most suspicious trades involved American Airlines and United Airlines, whose
planes were hijacked and crashed, and the giant reinsurer Munich Re.

Regulators are understood to be especially interested in Middle Eastern banks
with operations in London and other western financial centres that placed trades
with bigger institutions.

As the FBI leads the investigation into who carried out the attacks, MI6 and the
CIA together with financial regulators worldwide are trying to track the
terrorists' funds and possible profits from a sinister form of insider dealing.

Within hours of the attacks, the City was awash with rumours of heavy "shorting"
in airline and insurance stocks in London. Financial regulators throughout the
world have launched investigations. The Financial Services Authority in London,
while making no public comment, is also investigating.

"It is a tricky task, " said an FSA source, "because of the volume of trades.
With falling markets, there was a lot of legitimate short selling going on
anyway." Regulators are asking banks to identify clients and for tape recordings
of the "shorting" orders. Under antimoney laundering laws, institutions must
know the identity of clients.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              46 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

FINANCIAL EXPRESS : INDUSTRY BOSSES OFFER REASSURANCE THAT POLICIES WILL COVER
POSSIBLE ATTACKS,; IF TERRORISTS HIT BRITAIN INSURERS ARE LIKELY TO PAY

BYLINE: Tom Tickell

SECTION: Your Money; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 450 words


PEOPLE are beginning to wonder if insurers would pay out if terrorist attacks
and civil unrest struck Britain.

Malcolm Tarling of the Association of British Insurers said: "Most buildings and
contents policies cover terrorism. Riots would normally be covered too, so would
malicious damage.

"But war is usually excluded and some contracts add the phrase. . .'and similar
event'. Many policies also exclude hostilities but definitions of that will
vary.

However, while politicians might declare war on terrorism, most experts insist
war is when one sovereign state declares war on another."

Phil Davies of Cornhill Direct said: "You can have war against a country but not
against a concept such as terrorism.

We will pay out to the families of any customer who is killed by terrorist
attack, or whose house or property is damaged."

Direct Line, which insures almost a million homes in Britain, takes the same
line - and like most other groups will cover people whose property is damaged in
"riots, civil commotion or political and industrial disturbances". This applies
whether the damage is to a house or car.

Death or injury is another matter. Your family could apply to the Criminal
Injuries Compensation Authority if you are killed in any violent crime,
including terrorism in Great Britain. Your spouse or partner of either sex you
have lived with for at least two years, parents and children may each get GBP
5,500 - sole survivors may receive GBP 11,000. Children under 18 receive GBP
2,000 and those witnessing an attack on a loved one can apply for compensation
as a victim. What would happen if war was declared is unclear. Most company
pension schemes include "death-in-service" arrangements paying up to four times
your pre-tax salary if you die - or are killed - while the firm employs you. The
cash is tax free. You can always buy matching benefits on personal pensions,
though they usually cost extra.

But personal pensions should pay out to your widow or widower - or anyone else
you have named - the value of the pension you have built up, if you die early.

Travel policies exclude terrorism, even though a few business contracts cover
it.

In practice insurers have paid up until now. People who had to stay on in the US
as a result of the attacks and the temporary ban on flights over America, found
insurers extending the cover against theft and most other risks while they had
to remain there. Normally airlines or the tour operators pay for accommodation.

For the moment, rules covering terrorism and its consequences are far more
helpful than people expect. But if it started spreading, then insurers might
take a different attitude.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              47 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

FINANCIAL EXPRESS :; 50 TOP HOMES TO BUY THIS WEEK

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady PROPERTY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Property; Pg.  40

LENGTH: 2572 words


THE SPECTRE of another property crash has been brought closer by the terrorist
attacks on America. The Nationwide, Britain's biggest building society, has
warned that the economic fallout from the US strike could hit house prices here.

"There will obviously be a knock-on effect on the UK property market from what
is now an expected downturn in the economy in both countries, " said spokesman
Steve Cowdry.

"All this talk of war and military action is not good for the housing market.
People tend to stay put in times of uncertainty and instability. We anticipate
fewer houses bought and sold over the next few months, and prices bottoming out.

"We are not yet cutting our most upto-date forecast of housing inflation at 11
per cent, but we will be monitoring the situation to see how it all pans out
before we make another projection.

"Another interest rate cut may be on the horizon - but that will be more of a
stabilising measure than anything else."

The warning was echoed by the Halifax, Britain's biggest mortgage lender. It
said: "The terrorist attacks in the US and the accompanying fall in share prices
have increased the risks to the global and UK economy."

1 The Oakingham House Estate Nuffield, Oxfordshire GBP 10million PALATIAL just
about sums up this country house with its classically designed interior. It has
eight bedrooms, a two-bed flat, three-bed cottage, tennis court, pool, and 202
acres. Best bit: The essential floodlit helipad. Worst bit: Functional
snooker/bar room. Tel: 01491 843000 2 The Thatched Cottage Earley, Berkshire GBP
395,000 DATING from around 1650, this picturesque cottage has four bedrooms,
timbered ceilings and a modern oak kitchen. There is only one bathroom, but it
has twin hand basins and power shower. Best bit: Newly thatched. Worst bit: Very
low (child-height) ceiling in one bedroom. Tel: 0118 950 2341 3 Trebrea Lodge
Trenale, Cornwall GBP 650,000 JUST half a mile from the beautiful village of
Tintagel - said to have been the home of King Arthur - and dating back to the
early 1300s. It has seven en suite bedrooms and plenty of period features. Best
bit: Panoramic views across fields to the Atlantic ocean. Worst bit: Currently a
country house hotel. Tel: 01872 273473 4 Kames Castle Isle of Bute, Scotland GBP
700,000 THE 18th century wall garden is a real feature of this threebedroom
mini-castle, which also has a magnificent stone "Great Hall" with vaulted
ceiling, arched windows and stone fireplace. Best bit: Four holiday cottages
with annual turnover of GBP 57,000. Worst bit: Roving holidaymakers. Tel: 0131
226 2500 5 Wootton Castle Queenshead, Shropshire GBP 315,000 MORE like two 16th
century cottages amalgamated into one, than a castle, but still. . . There are
four bedrooms and the 2.25acre grounds include a kitchen garden, rose and water
garden. Best bit: The grand property name. Worst bit: Visitors trying to find
"the castle". Tel: 01743 353511 6 Clovile Hall West Hanningfield, Essex GBP
1.35million AN ELIZABETHAN five-bedroom manor house with beamed ceilings and
wood-panelled walls. It has a number of lead light and mullioned windows, and
two early 17th century wall paintings. Best bit: Heated outdoor swimming pool.
Worst bit: Relatively small kitchen. Tel: 01245 269311 7 Lindisfarne Isham,
Northamptonshire GBP 375,000 ONE of six houses in a quiet cul-de-sac backing
onto open countryside. The 16-year-old property has a very large drawing room
and dining room. Best bit: Extensive storage space. Worst bit: Canoe storage
(unless you own one). Tel: 01858 433123 8 Stanlake Farm Cottage Twyford,
Leicestershire GBP 375,000 VERY pretty 17th century timbered farmhouse. Only two
bedrooms, but the owners have planning permission for a single-storey extension.
Best bit: Magnificent timbered 21-ft sitting room. Worst bit: Outbuilding needs
renovating. Tel: 0118 950 2341 9 The Old Rectory Whatcote, Warwickshire GBP
1.4million THIS handsome, seven-bedroom period rectory was built from local
stone, with stone mullion windows and an integral one-bedroom annexe. Best bit:
Beautiful Victorian stable yard. Worst bit: Former cottage needs restoring. Tel:
01295 228000 10 The Thatched Cottage Wilby, Suffolk GBP 250,000 A TRADITIONAL
timber-frame 17th century cottage with an 18ft sitting room and massive
inglenook fireplace. There are four bedrooms. Best bit: Plum, apple and cherry
trees. Worst bit: Roof maintenance. Tel: 01728 724200 11 Voelas Hall Glandyfi,
Powys GBP 495,000 THIS stone-built mansion is huge. It has eight bedrooms, six
bathrooms, a 35ft reception hall and a 36ft x 29ft lounge with parquet dance
floor. Best bit: Stunning gardens with waterfalls. Worst bit: Six miles to the
nearest town. Tel: 01492 534477 12 Bridge House Brimfield, Ludlow GBP 525,000 AN
ORIGINAL patterned mosaic tiled floor is just one of the many period features in
this fivebedroom Georgian house. Best bit: Lovely three-bedroom cottage. Worst
bit: Plain red-brick facade. Tel: 01952 239500 13 Doves Nest Cottage
Duddleswell, Sussex GBP 650,000 AN UNUSUAL home, with flexible living
accommodation, that has been renovated and extended. There are two bedrooms.
Best bit: Stunning gardens. Worst bit: Gardener's quarters needs attention. Tel:
01892 531199 14 The Dial House Knowle, Solihull GBP 1.6million MAGNIFICENT,
beautifully restored Elizabethan manor house with a fascinating history and a
number of outbuildings. Best bit: Oak-panelled library. Worst bit: Maintenance.
Tel: 01564 783866 15 East Farmhouse Charlton Adam, Somerset GBP 795,000 THIS
18th century, four-bedroom farmhouse has been recently upgraded and extended to
include a tasteful two-bedroom annexe. Best bit: Stables and paddocks. Worst
bit: Vinyl flooring in the kitchen. Tel: 01458 272692 16 Badgers Oast St Mary's
Platt, Kent GBP 795,000 THE two roundels were converted in 1995 to provide an
unusual and spacious home with arched brick doorways and ragstone walls. Best
bit: Oak staircase reclaimed from a rectory. Worst bit: Gardens need developing.
Tel: 01732 459900 17 Chapel Farm Barns Ecchinswell, Berkshire GBP 785,000
TIMBERED barn conversion with beautiful quarry tiled and stripped wood floors,
inglenook fireplaces and a wealth of exposed beams. Best bit: Nursery built into
the eaves. Worst bit: Thatched outbuilding needs attention. Tel: 01256 474647 18
Windabout Mortimer Common, Berkshire GBP 650,000 SKILFULLY converted a century
ago from three cottages, this "chocolate box" home has four bedrooms and a brand
new kitchen. Best bit: Recently installed heated pool. Worst bit: Glazed
internal doors. Tel: 01256 350600 19 Quinnies Boughton Aluph, Kent GBP 445,000
BELIEVED to have been the fifth house built on the local estate, hence the name.
It also has five bedrooms - and an indoor pool. Best bit: The area is a walkers'
paradise. Worst bit: Uninspiring garden. Tel: 01233 812060 20 Fardel Manor
Cornwood, Devon GBP 1million HIGH stone walls and immaculate gardens surround
this late-medieval manor house where Sir Walter Raleigh's family once lived.
Best bit: Outdoor heated swimming pool. Worst bit: Nearest pub over two miles
away. Tel: 01392 253 344 21 The Old Bakehouse Belchamp Water, Suffolk GBP
440,000 THIS former village bakery and post office, in the centre of a pretty
village with a duck pond, has four bedrooms and a range of outbuildings. Best
bit: Old bakehouse oven intact. Worst bit: Planning permission needed. Tel:
01245 269311 22 Bourchiers Felstead, Essex GBP 700,000 AS WELL as six bedrooms,
this early 17th century house has a study and secondary study area. It's set in
six acres and has a 180m drive. Best bit: Stable block and paddocks. Worst bit:
Small upstairs windows. Tel: 01245 269311 23 Cherry Tree Cottage Godden Green,
Kent GBP 695,000 THIS five-bedroom 1930s house has a prime site overlooking the
village green in the centre of a pretty hamlet. It has three reception rooms.
Best bit: Driveway flanked by cherry trees. Worst bit: Decor. Tel: 01732 740745
24 Augusta House Orton Waterville, Peterborough GBP 425,000 BUILT a decade ago,
this five-bedroom house has a lovely long drawing room leading into a good-sized
dining room, with inglenook fireplaces. Best bit: Well-fitted kitchen. Worst
bit: Part of "a small, select development". Tel: 01858 433123 25 Aber Eden
Ganllwyd, Gwynedd GBP 495,000 AN IMPOSING Victorian country house, built from
local stone, on the coastal fringe of Snowdonia National Park. Best bit: Salmon
and sea trout fishing rights. Worst bit: Long staircase. Tel: 01743 353511 26
Broom Gleneagles, Perthshire GBP 575,000 PART of a prestigious area called
Caledonian Crescent, which is managed by "feudal superiors" who restrict
occupancy to single families. Best bit: Proximity to Gleneagles golf courses.
Worst bit: Two bedrooms on the ground floor. Tel: 0131 247 3710 27 Nether
Parkley Linlithgow, West Lothian GBP 650,000 A MAGNIFICENT cream-coloured
sandstone mansion with lots of period features, seven bedrooms and three
beautiful reception rooms. Best bit: Fabulous wooded grounds (5.7 acres). Worst
bit: Summer house looks like a phone box. Tel: 0131 247 3710 28 Bell Lodge
Shipston On Stour, Warwickshire GBP 395,000 IMPRESSIVE features within this
largely-19thcentury-but-with-17th-century origins "lodge" include the Italian
porcelain-tiled kitchen floor. Best bit: Mural of fruit trees in the hall. Worst
bit: Gravelled car park. Tel: 01608 663788 29 Tidwell Manor Knowle, East Devon
GBP 500,000 NO FEAR of an ill wind blowing - the farmland surrounding this
two-acre property is all organic. Currently used as a hotel. Best bit:
Impressive decorative plaster work. Worst bit: Needs refurbishing. Tel: 01395
265353 30 Lime Kiln House Gresham, Norfolk GBP 395,000 MOST of the rooms in this
four-bedroom house are south-facing and there is a two-storey oriel window
dating back to the 1920s. Best bit: Stunning and varied 1.5-acre grounds. Worst
bit: Section of the garden needs attention. Tel: 01603 229229 31 Craigs End
Stambourne, Essex GBP 425,000 THIS gorgeous cottage has four bedrooms (two very
small), an impressive heavy timber front door and exposed beams throughout. Best
bit: Cherry, plum, apple and walnut trees. Worst bit: Small windows. Tel: 01245
269311 32 Chadley House Wellesbourne, Warwickshire GBP 695,000 ALL EIGHT
bedrooms of this predominantly Georgian house have an en suite bathroom, or
shower, to confound early morning squabbles. Best bit: You'll never get caught
short. Worst bit: Toilet-cleaning. Tel: 01295 22800 33 Parsonage Farm Cottage
Arkesden, Essex GBP 435,000 FAIRYTALE cottage with spacious rooms - including
three bedrooms, a sitting room and dining room. There is also a small
conservatory. Best bit: Character. Worst bit: Washing machine in the bathroom.
Tel: 01279 756800 34 Knapton Lodge West Knapton, Yorkshire GBP 575,000 THIS
one-time "Gentleman's Residence" has five bedrooms and has been re-roofed,
re-wired, damp-proofed, timber-treated and insulated. Best bit: Centre-floor
roll-top bath. Worst bit: Barn awaiting conversion. Tel: 01904 617820 35
Whitmoor Hatch Whitmoor Common, Surrey GBP 1.9million THE 10.5 acres of grounds
surrounding this five-bedroom listed country house include a heated swimming
pool and hard tennis court. Best bit: Exposed beams and brickwork. Worst bit:
Garage within the coach house. Tel: 01483 773773 36 Bramshill Manor Ottershaw,
Surrey GBP 2.75million BRAND new and extremely grand mansion set in prime
computer belt land. There are five double bedrooms and four bathrooms. Best bit:
40 acres of land. Worst bit: No leisure facilities. Tel: 0118 970 8222 37 Priors
Kelvedon Hatch, Essex GBP 1.1million A FOUR-bedroom, part-Georgian house with a
large attic room and a pretty two-bedroom coach house annexe. Best bit: High
ceilings in the front rooms. Worst bit: Very imposing-looking. Tel: 01245
2693110 38 The Court Yard Calcot Park, Berkshire GBP 400,000 A LISTED,
two-bedroom Georgian house which has been renovated to a high standard, with a
contemporary interior and landscaped gardens. Best bit: Direct access onto local
golf course. Worst bit: Modern conservatory. Tel: 0118 950 2341 39 Pond House
Great Bentley, Essex GBP 400,000 SITUATED on the edge of the largest village
green in Essex, overlooking the duck pond. The house has five bedrooms and two
kitchens. Best bit: Potential for self-contained annexe. Worst bit: Opens
directly onto the road. Tel: 01245 269311 40 Micklands Farm Bledington,
Oxfordshire GBP 625,000 COTSWOLD stone farmhouse set in an Area of Outstanding
Natural Beauty. There's a stone fireplace, window seats and an outdoor pool.
Best bit: Smart new stable block. Worst bit: House and pool need renovating.
Tel: 01295 228021 41 Barton House Clipston, Northamptonshire GBP 595,000 A
CONVERTED Victorian barn which now has a very contemporary exterior and
interior, with an electric Aga and power showers. Best bit: 33-foot
conservatory. Worst bit: Unattractive central chimney breast. Tel: 01858 433123
42 Four Shires House Moreton-In-Marsh, Gloucestershire GBP 550,000 BUILT in the
1950s, the property has been extensively modernised over recent years. It has
four bedrooms - two en suite. Best bit: Established Bed & Breakfast business.
Worst bit: Bang next to a modern outbuilding. Tel: 01608 650502 43 Brook Cottage
Navestock, Essex GBP 695,000 THIS period cottage is believed to date back many
centuries. There are exposed beams in the dining room, study area and two
bedrooms. Best bit: Three acres of well-stocked gardens. Worst bit: Needs
modernising. Tel: 01245 269311 44 The Cottage Brenchley, Kent GBP 525,000 A
GRADE II-listed house bursting with character and exposed beams throughout.
Lovely coloured splashback tiles in the kitchen. Best bit: Recently renovated
and refurbished. Worst bit: Small windows. Tel: 01892 531199 45 Chalks Farm
Leaden Roding, Essex GBP 800,000 THE five-bedroom farmhouse, a range of barns,
stable block and former granary are gathered around a central courtyard. Best
bit: Good ceiling heights. Worst bit: Some upgrading required. Tel: 01245 269311
46 Henbury Manor Henbury, Dorset GBP 975,000 A LUXURIOUS manor house with a
Continental-style exterior, plus air conditioning inside. There is also a lodge
and helicopter pad. Best bit: Sauna and solarium. Worst bit: No swimming pool.
Tel: 01202 856800 47 Rosecroft Cottages Hambledon, Hampshire GBP 465,000 THIS
four-bedroom house has a brand new Shaker-style kitchen beautifully offset by
the Italian ceramic floor and exposed ceiling timbers. Best bit: Outdoor heated
swimming pool. Worst bit: Featureless sitting room. Tel: 01962 860300 48
Coulsknowe House Yetts O'Muckhart, Perthshire GBP 210,000 SITTING in splendid
isolation, this fourbedroom, 1820s stone house has been extended and now forms a
U-shape. Best bit: Far-reaching, stunning views. Worst bit: Likelihood of being
snowed-in. Tel: 0131 226 2500 49 The Warleigh House Estate South Hams, Devon GBP
2million AN IMPOSING 70-room mansion with numerous outbuildings, over 110 acres
of land and a wonderful waterfront setting. Best bit: Granite fireplace in the
Great Hall. Worst bit: Heating bills. Tel: 01752 671167 50 Old Church Cottage
Wroxhall, Isle of Wight GBP 255,000 A GORGEOUS 18th century, two-bedroom, stone
cottage with a stone well, detached garage and shed in the lush gardens. Best
bit: Arched and slit windows. Worst bit: Incongruous Amdega conservatory. Tel:
01983 866 822

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              48 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 23, 2001

BA CONSIDERS MOVING OUT OF GATWICK

BYLINE: Ross Hawkins; Transport Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 464 words


British airways is considering drastic reductions in its services at Gatwick and
could pull out of the Sussex airport altogether.

Quitting the airport would allow BA to sell its property assets there. Chief
executive Rod Eddington sees the real estate at Heathrow and Gatwick as a way to
cut the airline's debt, possibly through sales-and-leasebacks.

He told Sunday Business: "There are GBP 2bn of assets readily convertible to
cash. We have got substantial property in the UK."

A significant cut in the airline's presence at Gatwick, Britain's second-busiest
airport, is being mooted as BA prepares to cope with the slump in the aviation
industry triggered by the terrorist attacks in the US.

The airline had already made the decision not to maintain Gatwick as a hub, but
could now leave the base to low-cost and charter airlines. One option is the
transfer of more routes to GB Airways, a Gatwick-based airline which flies in BA
colours but is not owned by the UK carrier.

It is thought that operations at Gatwick are making losses of around GBP 100m a
year.

BA has struggled for years to make Gatwick profitable. Former chief executive
Robert Ayling's policy, which would have made the airport a smaller version of
Heathrow, was dropped last year.

BA bought City Flyer Express last year, its profitable franchisee at the
airport, and merged it with its own operations.

A full withdrawal would be undertaken with the utmost reluctance by Eddington,
who is understood to be unwilling to quit the airport as it would open up a
competitive position in London to rival airlines.

But City analysts say he may have little choice in the face of mounting losses.
As forecast by Sunday Business last week, BA on Thursday announced plans to cut
7,000 jobs and mothball 20 aircraft.

An indication of Gatwick's future will come next week when BA reveals its new
schedules. Some flights from the airport will be cancelled or moved to Heathrow.

Eddington cut 1,000 jobs and reduced the number of long-haul destinations from
the airport from 43 to 25 last December. BA reduced transfer traffic and began
to treat Gatwick as a base for point-to-point European flights.

Staff at Gatwick are paid less than those at Heathrow, so it would be cheaper to
make them redundant. The carrier sacrifice transatlantic flights from Gatwick as
part of a deal with competition regulators to secure a go-ahead for its planned
profit-sharing agreement with American Airlines.

Sources close to BA confirmed Gatwick is under review but said there are no
plans to quit immediately.

u EU finance ministers yesterday agreed to limit state aid for airlines to
short-term insurance. Canada also offered similar aid to airlines and airports.

Industry in crisis, pages 10-11


LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              49 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               September 23, 2001

BRITAIN 'JUST NOT PREPARED FOR MASS CARNAGE'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 219 words


BRITAIN is totally unprepared for the very real threat of a large-scale
terrorist attack, according to a Government adviser.

Consultant John Large believes Britain has not adapted to the reality of
terrorist warfare in the 20th century.

He is examining the potentially devastating effect of a plane hitting one of our
nuclear processing plants. He says Britain's 48 nuclear reactors were not
designed to withstand such an onslaught.

"The nuclear plants were designed in the 1950s when such a threat was not
thought a possibility. They are not made to cope with anything on that scale.

These are very vulnerable targets."

Mr Large added that the UK was also unprepared for biological warfare such as
the Tokyo gas attack.

"If there was a release of gas or disease we would be as prepared as they were
in Tokyo - which was nothing."

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon warned last week that the threat of a chemical
attack in Britain was "certainly something we have to guard against".

The Home Office insisted secret contingency plans were in place.

But Phil Thompson, of health service union Unison, said the Government should
provide more public information. "There's a health education aspect to this and
I can't see why it should be kept secret. People should know what to do."

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2003

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              50 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: BRITAIN'S ESCAPE: COWEN SPARKS NEUTRALITY ROW

BYLINE: Andrew Bushe By Andrew Bushe

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 306 words

HIGHLIGHT: CONTROVERSIAL: The government has given permission for American
military planes like the Stealth fighter to refuel at Irish airports


FOREIGN Affairs Minister BriFOREIGN Affairs Minister Bri the government's
decision to al the government's decision to allow US warplanes to use airports
in for refuelling itsHe said the US had not asked for permission, instead
Ireland had made the offer to show its support the US administration in its
efforts to rid the worldministration in its efforts to rid the world of
terrorists.

The decision to grant US planes permission to use Irish airspace and airports
was re airspace and airports was revealed on Friday night by an emergency
meeting of the an emergency meeting of the EU in Brussels.

Mr Cowen said yesterday that he would be delivering the that he would be
delivering the offer personally to US Secretary of State General Colin Powell
when he meets him this Wednesday in New York.

"We are making this offer available to demonstrate our solidarity with the
United States as members of the international community," added Mr Cowen.

But the decision was attacked by the Green Party which said neutral Ireland was
being dragged in potential military conflict

Green Party TD John Gormley said that all right-thinking people unequivocally
condemned the terror attacks as people unequivocally con barbaric but this did
not meandemned the terror attacks as barbaric but this did not mean there was
support for bombing Afghanistan.

He said the Constitution laid down that Ireland should not participate in any
war without the consent of the Dail.

Mr Cowen said the use of airports and allowing overflights was being made in
pursuit of United Nations Resolution 1368.

Fine Gael Foreign Affairs spokesman, Jim 0'Keeffe, supported the offer of
aircraft facilities to the US but was critical of the Government only dealing
with a single aspect of the consequences of supporting the UN resolution.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              51 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

TERROR TRAIL TO BRUM...;
 US ATTACKS SUSPECT IS ARRESTED IN SWOOP ON 2 HOUSES

BYLINE: Emma Pinch NEIGHBOUR... Mr Thomas Nock FAMILY HOME... Police wearing
body armour on patrol outside the house in Highgate EXAMINATION... police take
away items in plastic bags TOWED AWAY... a silver BMW car is removed from the
scene ARREST SCENE... the house where the Saudi Arabian man was arrested, just
yards away from Birmingham's Central Mosque ON DUTY... a forensic officer

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 701 words


One of the four people arrested in Britain in connection with the terror attacks
was tonight released without charge, police said.

The 29-year-old man was arrested at 3am on Friday in west London and was freed
after questioning.

Three other people, two men and one woman, remain in custody.

A MAN arrested in Birmingham by anti-terrorism police in connection with the US
atrocities is a Saudi Arabian compatriot of the world's most wanted terrorist,
Osama bin Laden.

The Sunday Mercury has learned that 44-year-old Abu Imard had recently moved to
Birmingham from the United States with his wife and three young children.

Mr Imard, said to be a mature student at Aston University, was arrested on
Friday night after anti-terrorist officers swooped on two properties just
streets away from each other in Highgate.

It is understood that he was eventually arrested under new terrorism laws at a
maisonette only yards from Birmingham's Central Mosque.

His detention came just hours after airline pilot Lotfi Raissa, 27, and his wife
Sonia, 25, were held in a police raid on an address in Berkshire.

Relatives of Mr Raissi, an Algerian national, said that he had flown jets in the
US for several years and was undergoing further training at nearby Heathrow.

It was reported that flying instruction manuals were seized in the 3am raid on
the Raissis' home in Colnbrook, Berkshire, on Friday.

But Mr Raissi's uncle Kamal insisted that the couple had no links with terror
groups, saying: 'Of course Lotfi has flying manuals at home - he is learning to
be a pilot.'

A 29-year-old old man was arrested at the same time at an address in west
London, but was last night released without charge.

All four were taken to police stations in central London where they were
questioned.

After the remaining three have been held for 48 hours, police will need to apply
to a magistrate for permission to continue questioning them in custody.

They can be detained, with extensions granted by a magistrate, for up a week.

A Scotland Yard spokesman said he could not say if the suspects would face
extradition to the United States.

A West Midlands Police source told the Sunday Mercury: 'The suspect is
definitely originally from Saudi Arabia, but we do not yet know if he has any
firm connections with Osama bin Laden or his Al Quaida organisation.'

Last night, three male and one female police officers guarded a semi-detached
house in Dymoke Street - two roads away from Highgate Street, where the man was
eventually found and arrested.

A police van was parked just feet away from the front door as objects in black
plastic bin liners were taken from the property. A maroon briefcase in a clear
plastic bag was seen being passed out of the house as a team of forensic experts
examined inside.

Flashing

Neighbour Thomas Nock, 52, said he had seen flashing lights and police outside
the house late on Friday night.

'My wife looked out because she saw lights flashing outside,' he said.

'We thought nothing of it and went to bed. At about 10.30pm we saw a silver BMW
car being put onto a car loader.'

Mr Nock said his neighbour lived with three school-aged children and a wife.

'We saw them coming and going from school and would exchange greetings,' he
said. 'But they kept themselves to themselves.'

Jason Holt, 18, a friend of Mr Nock's son, said: 'We were upstairs watching The
Bill when we saw lots of people in suits going in and out of the house.

'Police in uniform arrived shortly afterwards.'

Sanjeev Jaspal, 32, who owns a factory opposite the Dymoke Street property, said
the family had lived there for about six months.

'As I was going home last night there was a lot of cars parked outside,' said Mr
Jaspal, of Solihull. 'I thought it looked a bit dodgy because there were a lot
of people on mobiles.'

Meanwhile, more police officers wearing body armour watched over the three
-storey end-of-terrace maisonette in Highgate Street.

Landlord Bashir Khurran, who has owned the property for 10 years, said he
believed one of his tenants or former tenants had been detained but would not
comment further.

MIDLAND LINK

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              52 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 23, 2001

Britain must be alert for terror hits.

BYLINE: Sian Davies (author email sian.davies@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 581 words

DATELINE: Southampton



Britain should be on the "highest possible" alert over the weekend amid growing
fears of a second wave of attacks, terrorism experts warned.

An extra 1,500 police officers will be on the streets of London as senior
Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama Bin
Laden's Al Qaeda terror network.

In the United States the FBI is bracing itself for possible further disasters
amid reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights this Saturday.

Earlier this week US Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Bob Graham said the
suicide hijackings on September 11 were part of a larger plan of attacks.

Britain's most senior police officer, Sir John Stevens, has warned that the next
biggest target after the US would be London.

The Scotland Yard Commissioner said there was no specific threat against the
capital - but when asked who was the biggest ally to the US and what could be
the next biggest target, he said: "It's got to be here."

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre For The Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrew's University, said the police, intelligence
service and the public should be at the highest state of readiness.

He said: "If the Metropolitan Police Commissioner believes there is a real
threat I'm sure that this is something he believes on the basis of intelligence
evidence about these groups. We certainly know that Bin Laden's network has had
people in the UK for some time and the authorities have discovered that some of
the people involved in the hijacking spent time in Britain.

"This means that they have been able to move around in Europe and inside this
country.

"They clearly regard all the allies of the US as a potential target and Bin
Laden has made that clear in his so-called fatwa.

"As we tend to be a particularly close ally of the US we would be wise to to be
on alert because we are not immune from these kind of attacks.

"We should be at a very high state of preparedness, the highest possible effort
should be put in to ensure the intelligence service, police and
counter-terrorism capabilities are at the highest level of readiness.

"And we should have public opinion prepared for co-operation with the police.

"As we know from terrorism spilling over from Northern Ireland it is often
members of the public with information that help to thwart terrorism.

"I don't think we can assume these are the last efforts we will see from this
terrorist network."

He said there was a global threat to British personnel and facilities abroad as
well as to cities here.

"We cannot now fix on Afghanistan because that's not the full picture," he said.

"We have to recognise there are cells operating far away from Bin Laden's base.
We have to remember that they have attacked embassies, shipping and military
targets."

In London, the Foreign Office and The Department of Culture, Media and Sport
were both due to open their doors to the public this weekend but have cancelled.

Fears of further attacks have also been fuelled by reports that four suspects
linked to the 19 hijackers booked seats on United Airlines flights in the US
this Saturday.

Two of them reportedly bought tickets for Flight 1429 from San Antonio to Denver
and the other two for Flight 1185 from Denver to San Diego.

The FBI's 220-strong "watch list" reportedly includes 37 registered pilots,
meaning there could be many more potential suicide hijackers still unaccounted
for.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              53 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           September 23, 2001, Sunday

BRITAIN SHOULD BE ALERT, SAY EXPERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 302 words


BRITAIN should be on the 'highest possible' alert amid growing fears of a second
wave of attacks, terrorism experts have warned.

An extra 1,500 police officers will be on the streets of London this weekend as
senior Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama
bin Laden's Al Quaida terror network.

In the United States the FBI was bracing itself last night for possible further
disasters amid reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights for
yesterday.

An FBI spokesman said: "We can't rule out the possibility of further terrorist
activity but we aren't saying anything specific about dates - we are just urging
people to be cautious."

Earlier this week US Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Bob Graham said the
suicide hijackings on September 11 were part of a larger plan of attacks.

And Britain's most senior police officer Sir John Stevens has warned that the
next biggest target after the US would be London.

The Scotland Yard Commissioner said there was no specific threat against the
capital - but when asked who was the biggest ally to the US and what could be
the next biggest target, he said: "It's got to be here."

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre For The Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrew's University, said the police, intelligence
service and the public should be at the highest state of readiness.

He said: "If the Metropolitan Police Commissioner believes there is a real
threat I'm sure that this is something he believes on the basis of intelligence
evidence about these groups.

"We certainly know that bin Laden's network has had people in the UK for some
time and the authorities have discovered that some of the people involved in the
hijacking spent time in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              54 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WE WANT USTICE - NOT MORE TRAGEDY;
 CITY MUSLIMS PLEA FOR CALM

BYLINE: Mark Cowan At Birmingham's Central Mosque PROTESTS: Muslims meeting at
Birmingham's Central Mosque to discuss world -wide reaction to last week's
terrorist attacks and call for calm from western leaders ready to strike
Afghanistan

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 563 words


MUSLIMS in Birmingham today urged the Government not to commit a 'second
tragedy' by attacking targets in Afghanistan.

Dr Mohammed Naseem told worshippers at the city's Central Mosque that terrorists
responsible for the US hijack horror should be brought to international justice.

But he said the blanket bombing of Afghanistan was not the way to do this, and
added that it was the duty of Muslims to 'raise their voices' against military
strikes.

The mosque chairman's comments, in front of a 2,000 strong congregation, echoed
earlier calls from the imam Abu Yusuf, who also accused Prime Minister Tony
Blair of being 'gung-ho'.

The calls were made as the United States went on a war-footing with scores of
military resources and personnel being moving around the globe.

Alert

Britain too was placed on red alert with extra police drafted on to the streets
on the West Midlands, and elsewhere around the country.

During Friday prayers, Dr Naseem condemned last week's terrorist attack on the
United States in front of worshippers at the mosque for Friday prayers.

But he said the city's Muslim community would not accept a 'second tragedy' as
America stepped up its military threat against the Taliban rulers in
Afghanistan.

'We condemn the atrocity that happened in new York last week and we offer our
condolences,' he said.

'We are with them in mourning their tragedy but we are not with them in
executing another tragedy.

'We have our duty to raise our voices against it,' he added, before urging
people to stay calm, saying that anger was not the answer.

He said that evidence was found that pointed to bin Laden then he must be
produced before an international tribunal.

'In this situation we have an accuser who is also a judge and executioner and
that cannot be accepted in any civilised law,' he added.

Earlier the imam Yusuf said: 'The hypocrisy stinks and once again in the name of
freedom, civilisation and democracy, Muslim people, their countries and
individuals, their belief, their ideology and the Muslim world as a whole are
being targeted, vilified and discriminated against.

'It seems that our guilt is our religion, our guilt is our belief and our guilt
is that we are Muslim.

'We have no need to be apologising for something that we have no knowledge of.

'Muslims should stand up and use every legitimate means to point out to the
leaders of this country their double standards and their morally bankrupt
foreign policies.'

The pleas for calm came after Birmingham MP Clare Short demanded President Bush
reign in his military rhetoric. The international development secretary said:
'We all understand that America feels so angry that they want to get somebody
but you can't have lots of planes and guns and ships and make everybody do their
bidding.'

In Birmingham there was a heightened police presence on the streets to prevent
race hate attacks against Muslims and to reassure the community.

Protests

Officers were paying particular attention to building vulnerable to racist
attacks, such as mosques.

Senior officers have used the contacts developed during the threatened National
Front protests in August to organise meetings with community leaders.

The force had also launched a major information project aimed at members of the
public who feel vulnerable to attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              55 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 22, 2001

Nation on high terrorist alert

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 301 words


BRITAIN should be on the "highest possible" alert over the weekend amid growing
fears of a second wave of attacks, terrorism experts warned today.

An extra 1,500 police officers will be on the streets of London as senior
Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama bin
Laden's Al Qaeda terror network.

In the U.S. the FBI is bracing itself for possible further disasters amid
reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights this Saturday.

An FBI spokesman said:

"We can't rule out the possibility of further terrorist activity but we aren't
saying anything specific about dates. We are just urging people to be cautious."

Earlier this week U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Bob Graham said
the suicide hijackings on September 11 were part of a larger plan of attacks.

And Britain's most senior police officer, Sir John Stevens, has warned that the
next biggest target after the U.S.

would be London. But the Scotland Yard Commissioner said that there was no
specific threat against the capital.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre for the Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence, at St Andrew's University, said the police, intelligence
service and the public should be at the highest state of readiness.

Anti-Terrorist Branch officers have arrested three men and one woman in
connection with the attacks on the World Trade Centre.

A man, 27, and a woman, 25, were arrested at a residential address in west
London. A second man, 29, was arrested at a separate address also in west
London, a police spokesman said.

Later a fourth person, a man, was arrested by anti-terrorist officers at an
address in Birmingham. All were being questioned at central London police
stations, said Scotland Yard.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              56 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

TERRORISTS' NEXT TARGET COULD BE BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 127 words


BRITAIN should be on the "highest possible" alert today amid growing fears of a
second wave of attacks, terrorism experts have warned.

An extra 1,500 police officers will be on the streets of London this weekend as
senior Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama
bin Laden's Al Qaeda terror network.

In the United States, the FBI was bracing itself for possible further disasters
amid reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights for today.

Special forces troops are said to have begun a secret mission to capture or kill
Osama bin Laden. Senior US and Pakistani officials said the Special Operations
Forces had begun moving into countries bordering Afghanistan, the newspaper USA
Today said.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              57 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

Your Voice: Choose the weapons - H-bombs or aid

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1165 words

THERE has been an overwhelming response to our appeal for readers' views on the
terrorist attacks in America and their aftermath. Of the hundreds of readers who
have contacted us, a large majority backed America's declaration of war on
terrorism and are confident in George Bush to lead the West's response. Very
few, however, have faith in Tony Blair, whose reaction to the attacks was
contrasted by many readers with his record on dealing with the IRA. A sizeable
minority disapprove of any retaliatory military action, with many claiming it is
likely to prove ineffective and counter-productive. A large number of readers
have called for action to be taken against Muslim extremists in Britain who have
expressed support for Osama bin Laden. We are sorry that we have been unable to
acknowledge all your letters, but here is a representative sample.

Britain must back America

As an expat living in New York, the last week has been a horrible experience.
Seeing the death and destruction that has been done to this city has been
terrible. Everyone here is devastated, and it is almost impossible not to know
someone who worked in the World Trade Centre. But the people here have acted
with the utmost dignity; all they want to do is help. I sincerely hope this
shows Tony Blair that we have to fully support America in whatever actions are
taken in the coming days.

Duncan Frost, New York

When your friends are going through a bad patch you stand by them. This is
exactly what Britain and all countries who value their freedom should do to
assist America in her, and freedom's, hour of agony. However, we must have
evidence and be as sure as we can be that we are punishing the offending
terrorists and their supporting states and not someone we simply dislike.

R D Ackerley, Tattenhall, Cheshire

Now terrorism has been elevated to another level of horror, America is quite
right to take military action against the terrorists and those who harbour them.
In this instance, to show them that their actions will not be tolerated. Nato
should help to eradicate terrorism. Diplomatic tactics would take too long and
might be seen as a weakness.

Edward Rawlinson, Ealing, W London

Firm action needed

There is only one possible response - total war on terrorist Arab states,
including Iraq, Iran and Sudan. It is pointless to talk about bringing one or
two known culprits to trial because this will end in nothing and will leave
their sponsors completely unpunished and expose us to further trouble.

Peter Helland, Bath

Terrorists should be treated more or less as if we were at war with a
conventional enemy. As they as a rule don't discriminate between civilian and
military targets, an increased level of severity should be used in dealing with
them. The first country harbouring terrorists should be given a severe pounding,
then negotiate with the rest to hand over whoever is operating from their
territory - or else. Iraq should also be attacked until Saddam is toppled.

John Atkinson, Douglas, Isle of Man

If Iraq, Iran or Afghanistan had the atom bomb they would certainly use it on
America and ourselves. That's what will happen if we don't blow them to
smithereens now.

Vernon Dillwood, Timperley,

Greater Manchester

Let's melt Afghanistan. H-bomb them until there is nothing left.

Donald Hewan, Perthshire

Blair fails to match

In Mr Bush, America has a president who will not shy away from taking the
strongest action. Mr Blair, however, has shown his true colours when dealing
with terrorism and I am sure that it will not be long before his words are shown
to be hollow and worthless once again.

Julian Hurst, Chelsfield, Kent

I have every faith in George Bush but little in Mr Blair. Terrorists must be
brought to book and when proved guilty must be exterminated. There is no place
for such people anywhere and Nato must go as far as required to rid the
civilised world of such people.

Alfred Wilsmore, Tolleshunt Major, Essex

I have confidence in Mr Bush to lead the West's response but the hypocrite Blair
could prove wobbly. We should use military force against all terrorist
organisations wherever they are. Nato cannot find a political solution, as the
UN has realised in the Middle East and Blair in Ireland. Blair should tackle the
IRA/Sinn Fein terrorists instead of releasing 400 of them.

Sylvia Welch, Gillingham, Kent

More equal than others

As an Irish Catholic living here for 30 years, married to an Englishman, rearing
English children, but also having a sister living in Israel for 20 years, with
an Israeli husband and three Israeli children, I have been so upset over the
years at the understanding of Palestinian terrorism from the media and from some
people to my face. I despise both Irish and Palestinian terrorism. Some people
here aren't so selective. I hope the Arabs are not so selective. We will fight
terrorism with America and the West as long as it is not 'nice' terrorists, the
Palestinians.

Pauline Drury, Doncaster, S Yorks

Cool heads needed

I beg George Bush and Tony Blair to be very cautious and consider the full
implications of unleashing a global war. What is needed at this time is careful
consideration, rational thinking, calmness and patience. By bombing many
innocent people, no good will emerge and the whole situation will become even
more inflamed.

Margaret Jackman, W Norwood, S London

The tragic events in New York are not an act of war any more than the Oklahoma
bombing was. The fact that Osama bin Laden is a 'prime suspect' is not enough to
justify a strike. Before any action is taken, it is vital that hard evidence is
gathered and seen to be gathered so that any action can be targeted accordingly.

P Chitty, Battersea, S London

Jaw-jaw not war-war

Nato should stand back and seek a political solution. Violence breeds violence
and will never eradicate terrorism but will rather fuel and exacerbate it. An
eye for an eye is negative and vengeful. There are no winners in waging war, but
yet more innocent and vulnerable lives lost. Only fools rush in.

Libby Kenny, Hindhead, Surrey

Offer aid for bin Laden

The Americans should not retaliate with missiles to kill more innocents in an
already miserable and suffering land. Its civilians no more deserve to die in
this way than Americans did. The answer is not to respond to evil with evil.
America should offer the Taliban aid and lift economic sanctions in exchange for
Osama bin Laden.

Joanna Lyons, London

Bomb Afghanistan with grain. Feed the starving in Iraq. How brave a move would
that be? Who would the starving and suffering then turn to? The hand that feeds
the people or the hand that oppresses them?

Jenny Ardley, London SW6

Turn the other cheek

Terror cannot be stamped out and democracy cannot be preserved by the use of
force. To endure unjust suffering and still to forgive one's enemies is the
summit of Christian teaching without which civilised values have no future.

Philip Binding, Winscombe, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              58 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 22, 2001

YARD HOLDS FOUR TERROR SUSPECTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 233 words


THREE men and a woman were arrested by Scotland Yard detectives yesterday in
London and Birmingham over the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Center.

The suspects were being interviewed at central London police stations late last
night. They were detained after Yard officers received intelligence from the
FBI. The four suspects are the first to be arrested in Britain as part of the
FBI's global dragnet launched in the aftermath of the atrocities. Yard sources
said more arrests may follow this weekend.

A police spokesman said: "At approximately 3am on Friday officers from the
Anti-Terrorist Branch arrested two men and a woman under the Terrorism Act 2000.
They were arrested in connection with the World Trade Center attack and are
being questioned.

"They were taken to central London police stations, where they remain in
custody. A man aged 27 and a woman aged 25 were arrested at a residential
address in west London. A second man aged 29 was arrested at a separate
residential address, also in west London."

The spokesman added that a man was arrested at 7pm yesterday in Birmingham. He
said: "He was taken to a central London police station where he was being
questioned. The man was arrested in connection with the World Trade Center
terrorism attack."

It is understood detectives have seized a large number of documents, computer
disks and other material.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              59 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 22, 2001

AGENCY: AGENCY

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 151 words


Suspects arrested in the UK

FOUR people were today being questioned in Britain in connection with the
attacks on the World Trade Centre.

Scotland Yard said two men and a woman were arrested in London yesterday and a
third man in Birmingham last night.

The arrests came as Europe's leaders backed a targeted American response to the
terrorist atrocities in the USA.

And they vowed to help "each according to their means", a statement said at the
end of an emergency EU summit.

The pledge of support came as the US military build-up around Afghanistan
continued after the hardline Taliban government rejected President George W
Bush's ultimatum to hand over terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden.

The arrests follow a warning from Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John
Stevens that some of the US suicide hijackers passed through London on their way
to commit last week's terror attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              60 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 22, 2001

AGENCY: AGENCY

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 515 words


Britain goes on high alert

BRITAIN should be on the "highest possible" alert over the weekend amid growing
fears of a second wave of attacks, terrorism experts warned.

An extra 1,500 police officers will be on the streets of London as senior
Scotland Yard officers warned the city could be the next target for Osama bin
Laden's Al Qaeda terror network.

In the United States the FBI is bracing itself for possible further disasters
amid reports of terror suspects having booked seats on flights today.

An FBI spokesman said: "We can't rule out the possibility of further terrorist
activity but we aren't saying anything specific about dates n we are just urging
people to be cautious."

US Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Bob Graham said the suicide hijackings
on September 11 were part of a larger plan of attacks.

Britain's most senior police officer Sir John Stevens has warned that the next
target after the US would be London.

The Scotland Yard Commissioner said there was no specific threat against the
capital n but when asked who was the biggest ally to the US and what could be
the next biggest target, he said: "It's got to be here."

Prof Paul Wilkinson, director of the Centre For The Study of Terrorism and
Political Violence at St Andrew's University, said the police, intelligence
service and the public should be at the highest state of readiness.

He said: "If the Metropolitan Police Commissioner believes there is a real
threat I'm sure that this is something he believes on the basis of intelligence
evidence about these groups.

"We certainly know that bin Laden's network has had people in the UK for some
time and the authorities have discovered that some of the people involved in the
hijacking spent time in Britain.

"This means that they have been able to move around.  They clearly regard all
the allies of the US as a potential target and bin Laden has made that clear in
his so-called fatwa.

"We should be at a very high state of preparedness, the highest possible effort
should be put in to ensure the intelligence service, police and
counter-terrorism capabilities are at the highest level of readiness.

"I don't think we can assume these are the last efforts we will see from this
terrorist network."

He said there was a global threat to British personnel and facilities abroad as
well as to cities here.

"We have to recognise there are cells operating far away from bin Laden's base,"
he said.

In London the Foreign Office and The Department of Culture, Media and Sport were
both due to open their doors to the public this weekend but have now cancelled.

And fears of further attacks have also been fuelled by reports that four
suspects linked to the 19 hijackers booked seats on United Airlines flights in
the US today.

Two of them reportedly bought tickets for Flight 1429 from San Antonio to Denver
and the other two for Flight 1185 from Denver to San Diego.

The FBI's 220-strong "watch list" reportedly includes 37 registered pilots,
meaning there could be many more potential suicide hijackers still unaccounted
for.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              61 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 22, 2001

On the brink of war: Blair's support earns heady flattery

BYLINE: Michael White in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 514 words


When President George Bush used his emotional speech to both Houses of Congress
to declare that the United States had "no truer friend than Great Britain", he
even declared himself honoured that Tony Blair had taken the trouble to cross
the Atlantic and show his solidarity.

In their ritual display of bipartisan unity in the face of unprecedented
terrorist attack, America's political elite duly gave their guest a standing
ovation, the only foreign leader present to get such treatment on Thursday
night. It was flattery, but heady flattery.

Winston Churchill routinely got the red carpet treatment in Roosevelt's
Washington after hitching Britain's destiny to America's in the dark days of
1940. Margaret Thatcher's friendship with Ronald Reagan in the 80s revived the
fading "special relationship" - which Britain's Suez adventure in 1956 and its
refusal to join the Vietnam war had badly damaged.

The leaders know that most of the sentiment invested in the relationship lies on
the British side of the pond. Yet that does not mean it does not matter or that
Washington is not genuinely grateful for its "truest friend's" support in the
air and ground wars to contain Iraq and in the battle for Kosovo.

And Britain's still-effective armed forces turn up for a fight. Mrs Thatcher's
determination to retake the Falkland Islands from Argentina's junta in 1982 was
inconvenient to US foreign policy. But sentiment prevailed in the White House
and vital help was provided.

Many people in Britain and the EU, on the right as well as the left, dislike the
"poodle" posture of Britain as America's noisiest cheerleader - not so much an
English-speaking Atlantic bridge as an echo.

The paradox of Mr Blair's enthusiasm is that he is the man who wants to commit
Britain decisively to Europe and the euro. Both are certain to accelerate the
gradual drifting apart, so evident in the airframe or banana trade wars.

Downing Street insists there is no need to choose between Europe and America -
Britain can remain the bridge. Only time will tell. Meanwhile Mr Blair, no
orator but a politician with an actor's empathy for public mood, acts on his
instincts.

This week he told New York that it had stood by London in the Blitz (not quite
true) and London would now stand by New York. Mayor Rudy Giulliani, dubbed
"Churchillian" since September 11, was duly touched.

The Clintons turned up for the British memorial service in New York. On Thursday
night Bush too showed gratitude above the call of duty in two ways.

Though his guest (one of many) was two hours late, partly thanks to new and
inept airport security in New York, the president found time to honour his
dinner commitment to Blair's team. Colin Powell and Condoleezza Rice - big
players - joined Mr Bush over veal, scallops and three American wines.

The two leaders, who spent 15 minutes alone, also drove up to Capitol Hill
together. More impressive still, the president first did Mr Blair the favour of
a brief White House press conference. He even let his guest do all the talking.


LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              62 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: UK ON RED ALERT

BYLINE: Justine Smit

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 135 words


ARMED police stepped up patrols near London's major landmarks last night as
Britain braced itself for possible terrorist attacks over the weekend.

Fifteen hundred extra officers are on duty in the capital after Metropolitan
police chief Sir John Stevens warned "London could be next".

Scores of police marksmen armed with sub-machine guns and automatic pistols are
patrolling close to Buckingham Palace, Parliament, Whitehall and the City.
Hundreds of reinforcements are posted at Heathrow airport and in the West End's
shopping streets. Others are stationed on the Tube.

Regional airports are on alert. Mosques and other Islamic centres in London,
Birmingham, Leeds and Bradford are under police guard in cases of reprisals
against Muslims.

Sir John said: "We must not drop our guard."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              63 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: 4 HELD IN UK OVER TERRORIST ATTACKS;
 ALERT IN BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 235 words


FOUR people suspected of being involved in the World Trade Center atrocity were
arrested in the UK yesterday.

In two raids in the Paddington area of West London at 3am, two men aged 27 and
29, and a woman of 25, were held.

Later a house in the Sparkbrook area of Birmingham was raided at 7pm and another
man was arrested.

Last night all the suspects were being questioned about the New York attacks by
a joint team of Met police and FBI agents.

Officers removed several boxes from the addresses.

Meanwhile armed police stepped up patrols near London's landmarks last night as
Britain braced itself for possible terrorist attacks.

Fifteen hundred extra officers are on duty in the capital after Metropolitan
police chief Sir John Stevens warned "London could be next".

Scores of armed police with sub-machine guns and automatic pistols are
patrolling close to Buckingham Palace, Parliament, Whitehall and the City.

Hundreds of reinforcements are posted at Heathrow airport, in the West End's
shopping streets and on the Tube.

Undercover officers are watching more than 200 men believed to have links to
Islamic terror groups. A source said: "It needn't be a hijack. It could be a
bomb, chemicals or germ warfare."

Regional airports are on alert. And mosques in London, Birmingham, Leeds and
Bradford are under police guard.

Sir John said: "We must not drop our guard."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              64 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 22, 2001

CPs condemn attacks and warn on backlash;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 244 words


THE co-ordinating committee of communist parties in Britain condemned the recent
attacks against the US yesterday as "terrorist attacks against working people,
which will achieve nothing positive."

The committee warned that US and British imperialism would use the attacks as
the pretext for yet more state terrorism abroad and the erosion of civil and
political liberties at home.

Communists exiled in Britain told the committee meeting in London of a
resurgence of racism and religious bigotry in this country, as a result of the
government and media response to the US outrages.

The co-ordinating committee called for a peaceful resolution of the crisis on
the basis of national and international law.

Noting that the US and its allies had fomented terrorism in Afghanistan in their
war against its democratic government throughout the '80s, the parties also
demanded a return to the principle of national sovereignty enshrined in the UN
charter.

Representatives of the Communist Party of Britain were joined at the meeting by
representatives of the Progressive Working People's Party of Cyprus (AKEL),
Chilean Communist Party, Communist Party of India (Marxist), Tudeh Party of Iran
and Sudanese Communist Party.

They welcomed the Communist Review seminar on Socialism in the 21st Century,
which will be held at the Marx Memorial Library on October 27, as well as the
forthcoming celebration of the Tudeh Party's 60th anniversary.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              65 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 22, 2001, Saturday

UK hotels to soldier on

BYLINE: Tom Chesshyre

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 347 words


More British people may holiday at home, says Tom Chesshyre

BRITISH hoteliers and B&B owners are refusing to be pessimistic despite the
likelihood of a major tourist downturn caused by the terrorist attacks in the
United States.

Even though tourist authorities are predicting a slump in the number of American
visitors, accommodation owners are hoping that a patriotic fervour for
holidaying in Britain will help compensate for losses.

It is feared there will be a repeat of the effect of the Gulf War, when American
visitors fell by 22 per cent in 1991. That year, overall tourism dropped by 5
per cent: it was another four years before visitor numbers returned to normal.

Although hoteliers predict hard times, many feel tourism has sunk to such a low
following foot-and-mouth that it is resilient enough to withstand the latest
setback.

Owners point out that the terrorist attacks follow not just foot-and-mouth but
also flooding and a cold snap last winter as well as the fuel crisis this time
last year -all of which have left the tourist industry reeling.

"We hope more British people will take holidays in the UK," said Anthony Rosser,
manager of Lake Hotel Vyrnwy in Llanwddyn, Montgomeryshire, which has lost
Pounds 180,000 in the past three months due to foot-and-mouth. "Many people may
decide they don't want to fly, so holidays in the UK may be the answer."

Brian Evans, who owns the New Inn At Coln, near Cirencester in the Cotswolds,
says he has had a flurry of bookings from Britons since last week. "People are
frightened to be in the sky at the moment," he said.

The British Hospitality Association, which represents hoteliers, is also
hopeful, but Britain's tourist boards are warning accommodation owners to
prepare for the worst. They say that foot-and-mouth has already cost the tourist
industry Pounds 5bn this year, and that the US terrorist attacks will almost
certainly add to this.

Lake Hotel Vyrnwy (01691 870692), New Inn At Coln (01285 750651). British
Tourist Authority (020-8846 9000; www.visitbritain.com).


LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 22, 2001

West alert over race hate fears

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 334 words


POLICE forces across the West will be guarding mosques this weekend as officers
were put on red alert to stop more race hate attacks.

And Islamic leaders in the region have warned their communities to stay inside
at night amid a growing number of racial incidents following the terrorist
attacks in America.

Ethnic minorities in cities, towns and villages are living in fear after racist
thugs went on the rampage in many parts of Britain. Islamic leaders met with
Home Secretary David Blunkett and other senior ministers yesterday to call for
more protection.

After the meeting, Moslem leader Yusuf Islam, formerly singer Cat Stevens, said
an emergency hotline for Moslems under attack was the most urgent need, followed
by increased policing and a change in the law to outlaw incitement against
Islam.

Stopping race attacks was the responsibility of everyone and not just the
police, Avon and Somerset's chief constable Steve Pilkington said last night.

He said officers in the West would be 'pro-active' and pay special attention to
places that could become targets by 'extremists and bigots, ' especially places
of worship.

"We are calling on all decent people to ensure that this small minority of
bigots do not take advantage of the situation, " said the chief constable. "We
have all got a responsibility for this. My officers will not tolerate attacks or
harassment of any kind."

Islamic leaders in Bath say they are expecting attacks in the city and are
urging Moslems to stay at home after dark.

Their warning comes after a London taxi driver was paralysed after a gang
beating and a 19year-old Moslem woman from Swindon was viciously beaten with a
baseball bat.

Rashad Ahmad Azami, of the Imam of Islamic Centre in Bath, said he feared
reprisal attacks after an incident in which a few people shouted abuse outside a
city mosque.

Confidential reports should be made to the police or alternatively to Support
Against Racist Incidents on 0117-9525652.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              67 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

UNITED IN SORROW;
 YOUR TRIBUTES TO THE PEOPLE OF NEW YORK BLAIR LEADS MOURNING FOR MISSING BRITS

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 206 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair led a service of memorial and hope for the British
missing in the World Trade Centre attack.

At a service at St Thomas Church in New York, Mr Blair joined UN Secretary
General Kofi Annan and former US President Bill Clinton in prayers for the dead,
missing and injured, especially those from Britain.

With his wife Cherie at his side and accompanied by the British Ambassador to
Washington Sir Christopher Meyer, Mr Blair delivered a reading about death and
loss.

The service was the first formal expression of grief for 200 to 300 British
citizens listed as missing after the terrorist attack.

Mr Blair, before delivering his reading, said: 'There is no reading and there
are no words that truly bring comfort to those missing their loved ones today.

'After the terrible events of last week there is shock and disbelief and there
is anger round the whole of the world.

'There is the most profound solidarity, there is the determination to build hope
up. There is the surging human spirit.

'We wanted to be here today to offer our support and sympathy to the families of
the loved ones.

'The bonds between our two countries, so strong for so long, are even stronger
today.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              68 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: WE ARE THE NEXT TARGET;
 POLICE CHIEF'S WARNING ON NEW ATTACKS

BYLINE: Correspondent WARNING: Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John Stevens
CAUGHT UP:; Birmingham churchman John Hennings who was in New York when the
attack occurred DEVASTATION: An aerial view of what's left of the World Trade;
Centre in New York now that much of the dust has cleared following the terrorist
attack last week

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 311 words


BRITAIN'S top policeman has warned that Britain was the next biggest terrorist
target after the United States.

Scotland Yard Commissioner Sir John Stevens said there was no specific threat
against London.

But when he was asked who was the biggest ally to the US and what could be the
next biggest target, he said: 'It's got to be here.'

And Sir John issued a 'we're watching you' warning to any Islamic
fundamentalists intent on inciting violence.

Those thought to be stirring up anti-American hatred in the capital are already
being monitored by MI5.

But Sir John told a meeting of the Metropolitan Police Authority yesterday: 'The
security service doesn't have the ability to enforce law or arrest people.

'We do and we are looking at every word that's been uttered by people to see if
an offence has been committed.'

As yet there was no indication that police had talked to cleric Sheikh Omar
Bakri Mohammed, the London-based leader of Al Muhajiroun which has issued a
fatwah calling for the murder of 'those who wage war against Allah'.

Vulnerable

In Birmingham, there was a heightened police presence on the streets and
officers were paying particular attention to building vulnerable to racist
attacks, such as mosques.

A force spokesman said intelligence gathering, which started on the day of the
terrorist attack in the United States, was continuing at a 'significant level'.

But the spokesman declined to comment on whether officers were looking into
possible terror links to the hijackings or those planning reprisals for the
attacks.

It has also launched a major information project aimed at people who feel
vulnerable to attacks.

Thousands of posters and leaflets, printed in nine different languages, have
been distributed in Birmingham and a number of meetings with community leaders
have been held.

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              69 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 21, 2001

Tony Blair led a service of memorial and hope

SECTION: News, Pg.4/ 5

LENGTH: 136 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair last night led a service of memorial and hope for the
British missing in the World Trade Centre attack.

At a service at St Thomas Church in New York, Mr Blair joined UN Secretary
General Kofi Annan and former US President Bill Clinton in prayers for the dead,
missing and injured, especially those from Britain.

With his wife Cherie at his side and accompanied by the British Ambassador to
Washington Sir Christopher Meyer, Mr Blair delivered a reading about death and
loss.

The service was the first formal expression of grief for 200 to 300 British
citizens listed as missing after the terrorist attack.

Mr Blair, before delivering his reading, said: "There is no reading and there
are no words that truly bring comfort to those missing their loved ones today."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              70 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

IMPORTS DOWN 6.5PC AS TRADE DEFICIT NARROWS

BYLINE: Megan Davies Business Correspondent

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 341 words


BRITAIN'S trade deficit with the rest of the world narrowed to pounds 2.5bn in
July, official figures showed yesterday.

The data compares with the record pounds 3.4bn deficit recorded in June, which
economists attributed to an erratic blip, with the finger pointed at imports of
aircraft and precious stones.

Yesterday's data showed exports of goods from Britain to the rest of the world
in July fell 2.5pc to pounds 15.8bn, while imports fell 6,5pc to pounds 18.4bn.

Philip Shaw, economist at Investec bank, said what was encouraging was that the
balance with the EU had narrowed.

The deficit with EU countries in July narrowed to less than pounds 100m,
compared with a deficit of pounds 400m in June.

However, economists will be looking towards data in the months ahead to show how
last week's terror attacks in the United States will have impacted on figures.

Mr Shaw said: "Exactly how quickly that will come through is uncertain but I
think the gap will widen, as the attack will depress global activities and
because the MPC has compensated by cutting interest rates."

Economists were also worried by data from the Office for National Statistics
which showed the trade deficit with non-EU countries in August widened to a
greater-thanexpected pounds 3bn, from pounds 2.5bn in July.

"It is a big deficit - and is partly due to oil and erratic items, but you can't
just nod away oil and erratics month after month, " one economist said.

Economists agreed the global picture would worsen following last week's terror
attacks in the US.

Simon Rubinsohn, economist at Gerrard, said a slowdown in the US would have a
knock-on affect on UK exports. The US takes around 16pc of the UK total.

"Clearly what we are going to see is further weakness in the US. Our exports to
the US are going to be hit, but weaker demand in the US will also affect the
Eurozone and the Far East, so our exports there will also be hit."

That suggested the trade deficit would widen over the next couple of months, he
added.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              71 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 21, 2001

POLICE CHIEF 'S WARNING AS BUILD-UP TO WAR CONTINUES - BRITAIN TERROR TARGET;
EXTRA 1,500 POLICE TO PATROL LONDON AS YARD CHIEF COMBATS ATTACK THREAT

BYLINE: BY JOHN TWOMEY AND PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 663 words


BRITAIN'S top policeman issued a chilling warning yesterday that the UK could be
the next target for an attack by agents of terror warlord Osama Bin Laden.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens revealed that some of the US
suicide hijackers passed through London on their way to commit last week's
atrocities at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

He asked: "Who are the biggest allies of the USA? Which is the next biggest
target? It's got to be here." Sir John spoke as Tony Blair flew to the United
States to finalise plans for Operation Infinite Justice with President George W
Bush.

The Premier signalled that the armed backlash against Bin Laden was likely in
the coming days, possibly as early as this weekend, and made it clear military
action against Afghanistan was now inevitable in what would be a long and bloody
conflict.

Sir John gave his stark warning as Britain prepared to foot an estimated GBP
250million security bill, with every major city police force stepping up
operations to combat the ever-present threat.

As an unprecedented level of security began to take hold across the nation, Sir
John announced there will be 1,500 extra officers on London's streets this
weekend at an acutely sensitive time in the religious calendar with both Moslem
and Jewish festivals being celebrated.

The Commissioner also gave the strongest warning yet that fanatics who seek to
incite racial hatred will face prosecution.

He raised the threat of a terror attack on London at a meeting of the
Metropolitan Police Authority. While there was no specific information about an
imminent strike, general intelligence pointed to the danger, he said.

Sir John stressed that Scotland Yard was working closely with the FBI in the
global operation to track down the men behind the attacks.

With up to 300 Britons killed in the attack on the World Trade Center in New
York, it is now the biggest single murder inquiry the Yard has been involved
with.

Met detectives are in New York and there is a squad of CID officers prepared to
fly to anywhere in the world at a moment's notice.

The enormous bill faced by taxpayers for the increased security became clear as
MPA chairman Toby Harris said the cost to London alone could be an extra GBP
2million a week.

Adding up the possible bill for every big-city police force, experts put the
total cost at GBP 250million. Greater Manchester, West Midlands, West Yorkshire
and other forces serving high Moslem populations will bear the brunt outside the
capital.

Sir John said: "We are still at a high state of alert. We have been on the
highest state of alert for the longest in relation to Irish terrorism. London
has always been the target for Irish terrorists and fundamentalists.

You have my word that what is necessary will be done."

All police leave for Saturday and Sunday has been cancelled.

Sir John had a stark warning for people who have taken advantage of the
catastrophe in the US to ferment racial hatred.

"We are looking at every word that has been uttered to see if offences have been
committed. It could lead to arrests. We need cool heads.

These people are stirring up a lot of problems." Two Government departments and
a mosque which were supposed to be open to the public this weekend have decided
to close their doors amid mounting security fears.

The Foreign Office, the Department for Culture, Media and Sport and the East
London Mosque in Tower Hamlets were due to take part in London Open House
weekend, a celebration of architecture in the capital.

Other buildings which have withdrawn from the event include Horse Guards, the
Royal Danish Embassy, the Royal Military School of Music, Lancaster House, New
Zealand House, the British Airways Compass Centre at Heathrow Airport, the
British Airways Waterside office complex at Hillingdon, the Citigroup6 Centre in
Canada Square, Barking power station and The Economist building.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              72 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 21, 2001

CHERIE'S HUG FOR FIRE HERO

BYLINE: BY SALLY GUYONCOURT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 246 words


CHERIE BLAIR fought back the tears last night as she talked with colleagues and
relatives of the firefighters lost in the terrorist attack on the World Trade
Center.

The Prime Minister's wife, accompanied by former US President Bill Clinton,
visited the central New York fire station after attending a church service in
the city for the Britons killed in last Tuesday's atrocity.

She seemed choked with emotion as she spoke of the terrible images she had
watched on television in Britain last week and the immense bravery of the
firefighters who risked their lives in the line of duty.

She said: "I have to say, in Britain the people have just been stunned,
astonished by the stories of bravery of the firefighters, particularly the
people of New York's courage. To go back while people are running out . . . "
Firefighters at the station are mourning the loss of 10 colleagues from their
75-strong team.

But the station's chief officer James Wendling said: "All these men do that on a
day-to-day basis, they don't view it as heroic."

After the visit, firefighters and their relatives spoke of the genuine warmth
and sympathy they received from both Mrs Blair and Mr Clinton.

Firefighter Tom Woods said: "We certainly appreciated it. Mrs Blair just wanted
to express her condolences, her eyes were welled up - you could tell she was
genuine about it.

"For us it wasn't just a photo opportunity. This was somebody coming to express
sympathy."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              73 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 21, 2001

Leader: If it happens here too: Debate and action now could save lives

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 407 words


People in Britain are more worried about terrorist attacks than people in the
US, according to polls taken after the World Trade Centre disaster. The UK poll
- conducted by Gallup for the Daily Telegraph - indicates that 57% of people
here are worried that someone in their family will become a victim of a
terrorist attack, compared with 51% in the US.

The results may simply reflect Britain's longer experience of terrorism as a
result of IRA campaigns, but it does raise the question of how prepared we
currently are for a catastrophic attack. It is difficult to know what immediate
credence to put in reports of a "second strike" by the terrorists, possibly
involving the UK as a target. But true or false, we all know we have entered a
new era, when there will be a much higher risk of unexpected attacks than in the
past.

Britain is already on heightened alert as can be seen from a stronger police
presence on the streets in London, stronger security at airports and at the
Channel tunnel. What is needed now is debate about how much should be invested
in civil defence and at what trade-off between increased security and civil
liberties. Some measures are already being considered, including better airport
security, sealing off the pilots' area and banning knives. Other measures, such
as ensuring that hijackers cannot switch off transponders (making the planes
invisible to traffic controllers), should also be applied. Technologies like
voice recognition, fingerprint scanning and iris recognition could be applied -
at a cost to our purses and civil liberties.

There is a limit to what can be done to protect the London Underground, Big Ben
or the Channel tunnel from determined terrorists, but increased surveillance -
and continuous public vigilance, including whistleblowing - reduces the risk.
One defence against chemical or biological weapons is a ready supply of gas
masks. In the 60s, 10m were stockpiled. But stockpiles are no defence against
surprise attacks. What would be the cost of supplying every citizen in
vulnerable areas with a gas mask? Production of masks could be a cost-effective
use of the extra money that needs to be spent - and would stimulate economic
production. Some of our hospitals are already putting patients in corridors and
could not easily cope with an emergency. Spending money to cure such bottlenecks
was necessary before this emergency. Now it is doubly justified.


LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 21, 2001, Friday Edition 4

Attack Hits Jobs

BYLINE: The Journal

SECTION: REGIONAL NEWS, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 214 words


   The full economic impact of the US terror attacks was felt for the first time
in the North yesterday as the looming world recession sparked hundreds of job
losses.

In a direct result of last Tuesday's atrocity, Newcastle-based Gill Airways went
bust, resulting in 240 redundancies.

The company's bankers pulled the plug after a dramatic hike in insurance costs
in the wake of the US hijackings.

It came on the day British Airways announced 7,000 job losses as a result of the
reduction in passenger traffic following the terrorist outrages.

On a black day for the region, electronics giant Viasystems also went into
receivership, with the likely loss of more than 700 jobs in South Shields.

Meanwhile, in the early hours of today, President George Bush warned his country
to be prepared for a long war - and to be prepared for casualties.

In what was seen as a stirring address to Congress the president also praised
Britain and British Prime Minister Tony Blair, who was present in Washington to
hear his words. "America has no truer friend than Great Britain," said Mr Bush.

"I am so honoured the British Prime Minister crossed an ocean to show his unity
with America. Thank you for coming, friend."

Full reports: Pages 2-9 and northern business daily

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              75 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                           September 21, 2001 Friday

LGA URGES ACTION TO LIMIT RACIST BACKLASH

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 411  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Local Government Association has urged its members to make joint
statements with all ethnic and religious commu...


The Local Government Association has urged its members to make joint statements
with all ethnic and religious communities expressing horror at the attackson New
York and Washington and tominimise any backlash against minorities.Several
attacks on Asians and mosques have been reported in the UK in the aftermath of
the US attacks.The Islamia Primary School in BrentLBC, Britain's only
state-funded Muslimschool, was closed for two days lastweek after pupils and
staff received death threats.A spokeswoman for the school said since the threats
the general public had been very supportive and there had been no further
incidents.Sir Jeremy Beecham, LGA chair, said:'In the aftermath of [last]
Tuesday's events, it is important to communicate to all communites the
widespread condemnation of indiscriminate terrorist atrocities and to employ
those common human feelings in strengthening community relations.'London mayor
Ken Livingstone echoed the words of his New York counterpartRudolph Giuliani who
visited a Muslim cultural centre after the attacks.Mr Livingstone said that, as
in New York,'London can have no truck with racialattacks against our Muslim
population'.He has asked Metropolitan police commissioner Sir John Stevens to
keep him informed of any incidents.The Greater London Authority said theNew York
attacks would not derail Mr Livingstone's  tall buildings policy.A GLA
spokeswoman said: 'There will be no knee-jerk reaction to the attack. Obviously
safety considerations will need to be looked at in terms of all buildings, not
just tall ones.

The attacks last week show it is symbolic buildings which are targets.'Defence
minister Geoff Hoon said the UK may need to review its emergency planning in
light of a possible chemical or biological attack by terrorists.Councils have
yet to receive any new guidance from the government on emergency planning for
terrorist attacks, the LGA's fire and emergency planning spokesman Chris Drew
said.'Local authority emergency planning officers are as aware as anyone else as
to what is going on and will be looking at their majorincident procedures to see
what is prudent,' he said.- Firefighters in parts of the country began
collecting for colleagues in New York, 300 of whom died in the attack.
Gloucestershire firefighters collected £8,000 at an open day last week and said
they were planning to make similar collections again this Saturday following the
overwhelming response from the public at the open day.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: SHARES FALL TO 4YR LOW

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger, City Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 341 words


THE FTSE 100 Index closed at its lowest level in four years yesterday as
investors in Britain and the US sold their shares in droves.

More than pounds 38billion was wiped off the value of the UK's biggest companies
as fears about the global picture hit the markets.

And across the Atlantic, Wall Street slumped more than 300 points after it was
confirmed that last week's terrorist attacks will damage the US economy.

The FTSE closed 164.8 points down at 4556.9, its lowest finish since May 1997. A
host of blue-chip stocks lost ground, with British Airways plunging 12 per cent
after it cut 7,000 jobs and grounded 20 planes due to last week's atrocity.

The airline has seen its market value fall pounds 1.3billion after concerns
about the disruption to business.

And 83 of the other 99 top firms listed on the London Stock Exchange also lost
ground, including telecom group Marconi.

It now stands at another record low of just 23p, a far cry from the pounds 12.50
achieved in September last year. Uncertainties facing the oil market pushed
shares in BP down 19p to 525p while rival Shell lost 32.5p to 451.5p.

The losses on the FTSE gathered pace in the afternoon after the Dow Jones
Industrial Average was hit once more in early trading on Wall Street.

By the time the FTSE closed, the Dow had plunged by more than 230 points. The
technology-laden Nasdaq Index also dipped.

City experts said investors in the US and Britain feared American reprisals in
the Middle East.

Central bank chief Alan Greenspan confirmed the terrorist attack would hit the
US economy in the short-term.

He said: "Economic activity ground to a halt last week, raising the degree of
uncertainty about the future."

But he added that "longer-run prospects" were not "significantly diminished" by
the upheaval.

However, analysts said Mr Greenspan's move to reassure investors would have
little impact.

New York economist Professor Carl Weinberg said: "America's stock market has hit
the rocks. And it is still early."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: THANK YOU, UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 48 words


THE US Ambassador to Britain yesterday thanked the British people for their
"magnificent" response to last week's terror attacks.

In an open letter Ambassador William Farish said he and his staff were "deeply
touched" by the 60,000 messages received at the embassy in London.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              78 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           September 21, 2001, Friday

WE SHOULD BE TACKLING THE TERRORISTS ON OUR STREETS;
 SOAPBOX: ROBERT MYERS, 45, A BUILDING CONTRACTOR FROM CARDIFF, SAYS AS
COUNTRIES ACROSS THE WORLD DECLARE WAR ON TERRORISM TONY BLAIR SHOULD BE
FOCUSING ON GANGS OF 'TERRORISTS' IN WALES.

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 282 words


AS I made my way to a wedding party last week, like so many thousands of people,
my thoughts were many miles away thinking of the victims of the American
terrorist attacks and their families.

I was walking through Splott towards Tyndall Street, when all of a sudden a gang
of between 10 and 12 youths came running out of Adams Court. They were aged
between 10 and 16 years old and were shouting obscenities. I assumed these words
were being expressed at each other but seconds later when a brick passed within
inches of my head, I realised they were at me.

I turned around to face these youths who showed no emotion and just walked away
laughing and I realised I had just been subject to an attack by terrorists in my
own country by my own countrymen. That is what they are. Who had been their last
victim of terror? And how many more people will they terrorise in the future?

They go around in gangs throwing stones, mugging people, terrorising old people
all over the country, not just in Splott and other parts of Cardiff. People are
afraid in their own homes - afraid of terrorists roaming our streets.

US President George Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair have declared war on
terrorism. They have declared these terrorists must be hunted down. Mr Blair
should start in Britain.

I know these attacks in America were the most brutal and horrific crimes I have
seen. For that very reason we must not allow more innocent people to suffer in
any part of the world. By all means, hunt down the terrorists from Osama bin
Laden but also the terrorists on the streets of Cardiff.

I hope Bush and Blair will win their war and wipe out terrorism throughout the
world.

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              79 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 21, 2001

BBC's waiting game with bad boy of rap.

BYLINE: Rachel Sills (author email rachel.sills@lancashire.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 674 words

DATELINE: Bolton



HEAR'SAY'S Suzanne Shaw is set to perform alongside a host of big names at the
BBC's rival to the Brit Awards, it has been announced.

The 19-year-old from Bury will form part of a line-up for the station's
inaugural Top of the Pops Awards which promises to include 12 international
acts.

Although Beeb chiefs are keeping tight lipped about the full line-up,
speculation is rife that controversial rapper Eminem could made an appearance.

The show will take place at Manchester's Arena, where the top US star was
famously heckled by gay protesters and women groups.

Eminem -- whose alter ego is Slim Shady -- was also investigated for allegedly
taking drugs on stage.

BBC bosses are currently playing a waiting game to see which acts they can
attract from America, a country still reeling from last week's terrorism
attacks.

Bands confirmed include Westlife, Hear'Say and Atomic Kitten.

They will be joined by dozens of other celebrities and pop acts as the Beeb
launches what it hopes will become music's premier prize.

Other channels such as MTV already have respected award ceremonies but in
Britain and the Brit Awards has become the country's most eagerly awaited music
event.

The Top of the Pops Awards was launched yesterday by Chris Cowey, executive
producer and director of TOTP, and presenter Jamie Theakston.

It has been heralded as a "major international event" and is expected to attract
millions of viewers worldwide when it airs in early December.

BBC chiefs have already pencilled in 12 performances from international stars
and promise there will be some "interesting collaborations".

They promise that the event, on November 30, will attract the biggest names in
pop either to perform or collect their gongs.

Manchester, according to Mr Cowey, was chosen as host because it was the
birthplace of Top of the Pops in 1964.

He said the annual event would rival ITV's Brit awards and added: "You've got
the Brits on one hand and the Smash Hits Awards on the other. this is going to
be the best of both worlds.

"Top of the Pops is more relevant today than ever. There's no bigger name in the
world of music television and there's be no bigger event than the Top of the
Pops Awards.

"This is a chance for everyone to celebrate the very best in popular music."

Theakston said the event would be his biggest challenge to date.

He said: "I'm really excited about it. I have done some big events in the past
but I think this is the biggest and the most exciting.

"The people I have spoken to and the bands I have spoken to are really keen to
play at it."

bullet/ Tickets for the awards went on sale today from the MEN Arena box office
on 0161 930 8000 at GBP 21.50.

The long-running show was launched on January 1, 1964, from a converted church
in Manchester.

It was hosted by DJ Jimmy Saville and since then there have been more than 1,900
shows.

The format has always been simply to chart the songs in the Top 40.

It began with the Rolling Stones who were at number 13 with 'I Wanna Be Your
Man'.

At the time, their rivals The Beatles were number one with 'I Want to Hold Your
Hand'.

Every show was initially put out live which posed problems of bands not turning
up.

It led to the formation of the TOTP dancers including the Go-Jos and, more
famously, Pan's People.

Dancers were dumped when music videos became mainstream.

Top of the Pops moved south in 1967 because BBC bosses decided the logistics of
transporting bands north was proving too difficult.

Radio One DJs including Simon Dee and Kenny Everett were drafted in but the
format remained the same.

Yet it was the 1980s when the show really began to take off -- and even begin to
dictate band's chart positions.

According to the BBC, an appearance on the show often decided where it would
enter the following week.

In 1998, on May 1, the show was launched in its current format with presenter
Jamie Theakston.

It will move back to Television Centre on October 18 after an absence of 10
years.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              80 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 21, 2001

Trade deficit cut to GBP 2.5 billion
 Economists encouraged by recovery from record high

BYLINE: Megan Davies

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.14

LENGTH: 326 words


BRITAIN'S trade deficit with the rest of the world narrowed to GBP 2.5 billion
in July, official figures showed yesterday.

The data compares with the record GBP 3.4 billion deficit recorded in June,
which economists attributed to an erratic blip, with the finger pointed at
imports of aircraft and precious stones.

Yesterday's data showed exports of goods from Britain to the rest of the world
in July fell 2.5 per cent to GBP 15.8 billion, while imports fell 6.5 per cent
to GBP 18.4 billion.

Philip Shaw, economist at Investec bank, said what was encouraging was that the
balance with the EU had narrowed. The deficit with EU countries in July narrowed
to less than GBP 100 million, compared with a deficit of GBP 400 million in
June.

However, economists will look towards data in months ahead to show how last
week's terror attacks in the US will have affected figures.

Mr Shaw said: "Exactly how quickly that will come through is uncertain but I
think the gap will widen, as the attack will depress global activities and
because the MPC has compensated by cutting interest rates."

Economists were also worried by data from the Office for National Statistics
which showed the trade deficit with non-EU countries in August widened to a
greater than expected GBP 3 billion, from GBP 2.5 billion in July.

"It is a big deficit - partly due to oil and erratic items, but you can't just
nod away oil and erratics month after month," one economist said.

Economists agreed the global picture would worsen following last week's terror
attacks in the US.

Simon Rubinsohn, economist at Gerrard, said a slowdown in the US would have a
knock-on effect on UK exports. The US takes around 16 per cent of the UK total.

"Clearly what we are going to see is further weakness in the US," he said. "Our
exports to the US are going to be hit, but weaker demand in the US will also
affect the Eurozone and Far East, so our exports there will also be hit."

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              81 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 21, 2001

America 'is grateful to Britain'

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 187 words


THE American Ambassador to Britain yesterday wrote a letter of thanks to the
British people for their "magnificent" response to last week's terrorist attacks
on New York and Washington.

Ambassador William Farish said words could not express the depth of his
gratitude for the flood of messages of support "washing over us from every
corner of this great land".

Mr Farish said Americans were drawing on the resilience of Britons during the
Blitz as an example of how to cope in the current crisis.

"I cannot thank each of you in person, but hope this letter might adequately
convey my gratitude," he wrote in the open letter.

"Words failed when the horrors of last week unfolded. They remain scarcely
adequate to express the depth of my emotion now."

The US Embassy estimated it had so far received more than 30,000 condolence
cards or letters and a similar number of e-mails since the events of last
Tuesday.

Around 20,000 people had visited the Embassy in Grosvenor Square, central
London, to pay their respects, sign the book of condolence and lay flowers at
the Roosevelt Memorial, the Embassy said.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              82 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 21, 2001

Blair fights back the tears as families grieve for victims;
 Operation Infinate Justice

BYLINE: Flavia Munn

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 341 words


TONY Blair's voice was cracking with emotion last night as he delivered a
reading at a memorial service for the British victims of the U.S. tragedy.

The Prime Minister struggled to remain composed as he spoke with great feeling
about the "shock and disbelief" still resonating nine days after the terrorist
attacks in New York.

Speaking at the service in the city's St Thomas's Church, Mr Blair said: "There
is no reading, there are no words, that can truly comfort those who are grieving
the loss of their loved ones today; and no matter how we try to make sense of it
all it is hard, so hard, to do.

"Nine days on, there is still the shock and disbelief. There is anger. There is
fear. But there is also, throughout the world, a profound sense of solidarity;
there is courage . . . a surging of the human spirit."

He said nobody would forget what happened but the bonds between Britain and
America "are even stronger now".

With his voice quivering, the Prime Minister read the final words of The Bridge
of San Luis Rey written by Thornton Wilder in 1927.

The story is about a tragedy which took place in Peru when a bridge collapsed
over a gorge and five people died.

Mr Blair read: "A witness to the deaths, wanting to make sense of them and
explain the ways of God to his fellow human beings, examined the lives of the
people who died.

"And these words were said by someone who knew the victims, and who had been
through the many emotions, and the many stages, of bereavement and loss: But
soon we will die, and all memories of those five will have left earth, and we
ourselves shall be loved for a while and forgotten.

"But the love will have been enough; all those impulses of love return to the
love that made them. Even memory is not necessary for love. There is a land of
the living and a land of the dead, and the bridge is love. The only survival,
the only meaning."

A clearly moved congregation, which included families of dozens of victims, then
stood to sing the British national anthem.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              83 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

UK Muslims disown 'lunatic fringe'

BYLINE: By Richard Alleyne

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 604 words

MEMBERS of Britain's Muslim mainstream majority yesterday rounded on the "tiny
lunatic fringe" supporting the terrorist attacks on America.

Increasingly concerned by the headline-grabbing antics of extremists, community
and religious leaders broke their silence to distance themselves from the
"dangerous views".

They described Abu Hamza and Omar Bakri Mohammed, the so-called Islamic leaders
who supported the American atrocities, as "clowns" with little if any support.
Of the two million or so Muslims living in Britain, just a few hundred shared
their views, they said.

Inayat Bunglawala, spokesman for the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "For a
long time we have felt that we must keep our heads down and let these people
bring trouble on themselves.

"But if we don't speak out they will do enormous damage to our community.
Through their remarks about America they are inciting hatred against Muslims. We
want to put clear water between the mainstream community and these fringe
groups."

He then turned his attention to Omar Bakri Mohammed, the leader of the
Al-Muhajiroun organisation based in north London, and Abu Hamza, of neighbouring
Finsbury Park Mosque.

He said: "Bakri Mohammed is just a clown, a loony. People must understand this.
He is free to issue fatwas left, right and centre. We joke that there is one a
month.

"Abu Hanza is the same, although in many ways worse because he actively supports
violence. These people are a tiny minority. There are 800 mosques in Britain and
only two have extremists.

"No major newspaper would give the BNP as much coverage as Labour or the
Conservatives. They are getting far more coverage than their support warrants."

Mr Bunglawala said the remarks made by the pair had embarrassed and endangered
ordinary Muslims who were proud to have made a life for themselves in Britain.

"Usually we would say that these views carry no weight, but in the current
atmosphere they are highly dangerous. We find it absolutely horrifying what they
are saying.

"We have decided it is time for the silent majority to speak out."

In a statement issued yesterday, the Muslim Council of Britain urged caution in
the response to the terrorist attacks in America.

"The world powers must not respond with military action; that will only add to
the tally of innocent lives lost. Blameless people must not pay the price for a
crime they did not commit."

The council's secretary general, Yousuf Bhailok, called on all British Muslims
to "add their voice" to the international call for those responsible for the
attacks to be brought to trial. "Now is the time for all Muslims to show the
world that we stand for justice," he said.

The council's views on the extremist fringe were mirrored by Dr Zaki Badawi,
principal of the Muslim College and former Imam of the London Mosque.

He said: "These people are not leaders of any group. They do not represent the
Muslim community. In normal times they are just harmless lunatics but in times
like these they are extremely dangerous."

El-Tayib Ali, spokesman for Regents Park Mosque, west London, said the fringe
groups attracted disaffected youths. "These people are unemployed, they feel a
great injustice and are attracted to these groups. We have a problem with them
but they do not represent the majority of the Muslims in Great Britain. They are
a very small minority."

Arshad Javed, a Bradford businessman, added: "These people's views are as alien
to us as they are to Christians.

"Muslims all over Britain have to stand up and be counted and say they will not
have anything to do with them."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              84 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 20, 2001

HOPE FLICKERS AND DIES FOR THE FRIENDS AND RELATIVES OF BRITONS LOST IN THE
HORROR OF THE NEW YORK ATTACKS; NOTHING IN LIFE CAN PREPARE YOU FOR THIS

BYLINE: BY ANTHONY MITCHELL AND DAVID SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 661 words


A BRITON feared dead in the US terror attacks was 15 minutes into her new job at
the World Trade Center when the first plane struck. Melanie de Vere, 30, had
been in New York for less than 24 hours when extremists carried out the world's
worst terrorist atrocity. Yesterday her distraught mother told how she failed to
realise her daughter was working in the 110storey building as the tragedy
unfolded on television back in Britain. "There is nothing in life that prepares
you for this, " said Margaret Owen from her home in Hayling Island, Hampshire.
"The last time I spoke to her she told me how perfect life was for her. She
sounded like the happiest girl alive." Mrs Owen, 53, said her daughter had
bought a flat with boyfriend Ian Roberts and they were planning to get married
and have children. "We knew she was in New York - she only got there on Monday -
but we had no idea she'd been in the Center. Melanie, who was starting her
"dream job" with financial magazine publishers Risk Waters, is one of 5,422
still missing, believed buried under tons of rubble from the collapsed towers.
"Ian is entirely lost without her, " she added. "There is still a flicker of
hope alive inside me but I have to be realistic. "There is nothing in life as
bad as losing a child but to lose her in a disaster is so much worse because we
cannot have a proper funeral. "In my heart I would love to hear her on the phone
saying 'Hi mum' but then you look at the building and the shots from New York
and you have to be realistic, " said Mrs Owen, who is divorced from Melanie's
father David. "The last week has been like living in a bad dream and hopefully
you will wake up at some point. We're all still reeling from the shock. "Melanie
was such a fun-loving person who was kind, hard-working and gentle and had so
many friends. The one thing people say about her when they talk about her is
that she had a smile on her face." Melanie, who grew up on Hayling Island, had
been with the firm for a year before landing a position in New York. She was at
an 8.30am meeting with colleagues on the 106th floor of the Center's north tower
when the first plane struck 15 minutes later. Trapped above the wreckage at the
Windows on the World restaurant she and many of her colleagues were unable to
escape. "Her firm has been so good but there is just so little information
coming out of New York and Melanie is still listed as missing, " Mrs Owen added.
"The one thing we have learned from this is how many friends she had - hundreds
- and everyone who talks about her says what a good friend she was. "She grabbed
every single moment and never wasted a minute. She loved life and had so much
going for her. To have that snatched away from you is the worst tragedy you can
imagine. "These people have taken a life which they have no right to but I do
not feel angry. Retaliation will not bring anybody back but we have to stop
something like this from happening again." Melanie's sister Ruth, 28, will fly
out to New York later this week. She said: "We've had friends there putting up
pictures of her. "It could be weeks or even months before we know for sure what
happened to her but I feel I should be in New York to be close to her." Mrs Owen
concedes the final moments of her daughter's life may remain unknown. She said:
"I hope the last thing Melanie was doing was sitting at the top of the tower
with a coffee and admiring the view. It is a comfort to me to think that she
went quickly. "On Wednesday her London office confirmed our worst fears, she had
been in the building. "From Wednesday to Friday we just sat waiting for the
phone to ring. I didn't want anyone else phoning the house because I was waiting
for Melanie's voice saying 'Hi, mum, it's me'." Risk Waters, one of the world's
leading financial publishers, said 16 workers and a further 65 delegates were on
their way to the 8.30am meeting or in the building at the time of the attack.
All are missing.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              85 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 20, 2001

Support for retaliation

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 146 words


NEARLY eight in 10 Britons support the idea of military attacks in response to
the US terrorist atrocities, according to a survey yesterday.

Most citizens in the US and Israel even favour an armed response over
extraditing terrorists to stand trial, the 30-country Gallup poll showed.

Among the countries surveyed - including the US, Israel, Pakistan, 13 western
European nations and seven from central and eastern Europe - support for
military attacks was highest this side of the Atlantic.

In Britain, 79% of those polled agreed that the UK should take part in joint
raids.

However, opinion is by no means united.

In the survey, published yesterday by marketing information group Taylor Nelson
Soffres, most Austrians, Finns and Greeks oppose armed intervention, and in
Pakistan fewer than a third thought their country should take part in attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              86 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

TERROR IN AMERICA: BRITISH MUSLIMS - ANGER AT CLERICS' EXTREMISM AS RACE ATTACKS
RISE

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent Chaudry Haider, leader of the
Victoria Park mosque in Manchester, with a portrait of Pakistan's founder,
Mohammed Ali Jenah Warren Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 826 words


MODERATE MUSLIMS complained yesterday that two self-appointed Islamic clerics
were provoking racist incidents because of their extremist rhetoric in support
of last week's terror attacks.

Muslim leaders have been horrified at the blanket media coverage of the
provocative comments of the London-based "sheikhs", Omar Bakri Mohammed and Abu
Hamza. The Egyptian-born Mr Hamza, 43, has praised the terrorism as a
"justified" attack on "a crazy superpower".

Mr Bakri's group, Al-Muhajiroun (The Emigrants), has distributed leaflets
welcoming the attacks and claiming that "Allah has responded once again to the
cries and supplications of the Muslims worldwide".

The Home Secretary, David Blunkett, said he was "examining the exact statements"
to see if they contravened Britain's race hate laws.

On Tuesday, Mr Bakri summoned camera crews to the Pakistan embassy in London to
issue a death threat against the Pakistani leader, General Pervez Musharraf, for
his support of America.

Mr Bakri's two dozen chanting supporters were outnumbered by photographers. But
the Reuters news agency sent a report around the world under the heading "UK
Muslim chief threatens Pakistan leader".

For years Mr Bakri, who runs a Muslim centre in Tottenham, north London, has
been regarded within the wider Islamic communities in Britain as an eccentric
self-publicist.

Iftakhar Ahmed Khan, a London-based businessman who helped set up the Forum
against Islamophobia and Racism, said Mr Bakri was seen as an "almost comical"
figure by most Muslims. "He is like the John Cleese character in The Life of
Brian who is always organising meetings but hardly anyone turns up," he said.

But as racist attacks increased across Britain, including the petrol bombing of
a mosque in Bolton and a vicious attack on an Afghan mini-cab driver in west
London, the effect of Mr Bakri's words are no longer being treated as a joke.
Yesterday a 10-year-old Muslim girl had her headscarf ripped off by an adult
outside school gates in Swansea.

Mr Khan admitted that the Muslim community had been "very complacent" in not
coming forward to challenge Mr Bakri and Mr Hamza before.

Inayat Bunglawala, 32, a London IT specialist and spokesman for the Muslim
Council of Britain, said his organisation had decided to denounce the two men
for the damage they were causing to community relations. "We are used to
irresponsible comments from them but in this climate, where there are attacks on
mosques and assaults on Muslims, these kind of remarks are highly dangerous," he
said. "The Muslim council, which normally does not criticise other Islamic
groups, has given me permission to openly criticise them because they are doing
a lot of harm."

He said that Mr Bakri and Mr Hamza, a former nightclub bouncer who claims to
have fought with the mujahedin in Afghanistan and now runs a mosque in Finsbury
Park, north London, should be seen as marginal figures in a community that
supports 800 mosques across Britain.

Al-Muhajiroun is dedicated to establishing a Muslim state in Britain. The
organisation, which has been banned from university campuses, announced a fatwa
this week against any Muslims who co-operated with Western intelligence
services. Mr Bunglawala described the group as "the fatwa of the month club".

At Regents Park mosque in London, where 2,000 Arab, Asian, African and European
Muslims gather to pray every Friday, the views of the extremists are also
causing concern. The mosque's secretary, Tayab Ali, said its condemnation of
last week's terror attacks had unanimous support.

"Any Muslim-abiding person or any person with any grain of sanity would not in
any way support that," he said.

But Mr Ali accepted that extremists such as Mr Bakri and Mr Hamza had an appeal
to a small group of "misguided" young people. "There is probably support among
the youth but this is a section of society which is always the most difficult
because of other grievances," he said.

Al-Muharijoun has the backing of between 500 and 1,000 supporters. Mr Hamza's
organisation, the Supporters of Shariah, has about a hundred followers, and has
been linked to terror attacks in Yemen.

In numerical terms, the two groups are no more representative of Muslim views in
the UK than the British National Party is the authentic voice of British public
opinion.

But though mainstream Muslims may recoil at last week's attacks, many share the
distaste for American foreign policy which provoked them. Mr Bunglawala said "a
very large number" of British Muslims were "opposed to America" because of its
support for Israel and treatment of Iraq.

Paul Weller, a professor of theology at Derby University, said "swaths" of
conservative Muslims shared with a small radical element a sense of "historic
injustice" towards the Muslim world. "But the way in which people engage with
those concerns and do something with them is very different," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              87 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 20, 2001

Brittle in shape for success

BYLINE: by JDale

SECTION: Sport:Water:Sailing/Sailboarding, Pg.56

LENGTH: 158 words


sailing

Success can bring a hectic lifestyle and for Rearsby sailor Chris Brittle it is
no different.

The 19-year-old recorded a morale-boosting victory in the European Championships
on Lake Garda recently where, as part of the 11-man Great Britain squad, he
finished 10th overall as well as the first junior (Under-21) in the Finn Class.

However, the Southampton University student had no time to rest on his laurels,
and last week jetted off to Boston, America, for the World Championships.

"Chris is aiming for a top-10 place but in the wake of the terrorist attacks on
America, I'll be surprised if the event gets the go-ahead," said his mum Linda.

The 6ft 5in teenager is in great shape after training with the Great Britain
squad in Majorca, Palma, and Hayling Island during the winter thanks to funding
from the Lottery and Royal Yachting Association.

In this sort of form, the 2004 Olympics in Athens is a real possibility.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              88 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 20, 2001, Thursday

BRITISH TROOPS SET FOR ACTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 246 words


TONY BLAIR today said British forces would almost certainly be involved in any
military strikes against those responsible for the United States terror attacks.

He urged the world to show solidarity "in the next few days" as events unfold.

Mr Blair was speaking at the Elysee Palace in Paris after breakfast talks with
President Jacques Chirac as part of the premier's hectic shuttle diplomacy.

Asked whether Britain and France would join any military response, Mr Chirac
said: "I can't see how France and Britain would not be involved if it was
appropriate."

Mr Blair said: "I agree entirely. The question of the precise response is under
discussion."

The two leaders' talks followed Mr Chirac's return from Washington, where he had
a detailed briefing from President Bush as America began to deploy its forces
across the Middle East.

Mr Blair said: "We express our solidarity with the United States and the people
there.

"We recognise the need to take action against those responsible and affirm our
willingness, indeed our determination, to take measures necessary to ensure the
fight is successful."

He spoke again of the "growing strength of the coalition right around the world
against terrorism."

Mr Blair added: "I hope in the next few days we demonstrate as a world our
complete solidarity in this fight."

He flies to America later today to meet President Bush, who will ask him to
deliver Europe's backing for military action.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOLIDARITY: Tony Blair

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              89 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 20, 2001

Blunkett whips up asylum scare;
 'Fortress Britain' policy follows terror attacks

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 495 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett introduced sweeping security measures yesterday to
block refugees fleeing war and terror in Afghanistan from entering Britain.

Conjuring up a "fortress Britain" atmosphere, Mr Blunkett boasted of a range of
high-tech devices to be used by police and security staff at ports and airports.

Mr Blunkett insisted that the measures would help keep illegal immigrants and
terrorists out of the country.

The clampdown was announced on the same day that both Mr Blunkett and Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw called for a halt to the hate campaign against the Muslim
community in Britain, in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks in the US.

The Home Secretary also promised tougher action by police and MI5 against
Islamist extremists in Britain who have spoken up in support of terrorism.

Far-right Tory MP Michael Fabricant reiterated his call for tougher curbs on
asylum-seekers to prevent Afghan terrorists from "sneaking" into Britain.

But a spokeswoman for the National Assembly Against Racism warned that the
government's clampdown would only force asylum-seekers into greater danger, as
they made ever more desperate attempts to reach Britain.

Almost 3,000 more places at detention centres are planned to ensure the "rapid
repatriation" of failed asylum-seekers.

Mr Blunkett, who visited Dover to promote the new measures, declared: "We need
to get message across that we simply can't take a flood of those people being
trafficked."

The Home Secretary added that efforts must be made to ensure that asylum-seekers
fleeing Afghanistan in anticipation of US military action remained in that area,
rather than coming to Britain.

Mr Blunkett said that new security measures would include five mobile gamma-ray
scanners to detect hidden immigrants trying to get through the Channel tunnel.

He boasted that a new acoustic machine, which could detect the sound of a
heartbeat inside a vehicle, was to be introduced at the tunnel.

Thermal imaging equipment will be used to detect stowaways inside railway
carriages.

In addition, new-style CCTV cameras will be installed at Heathrow airport.

Mr Blunkett will also urge the introduction of EU-wide arrest warrants for
terrorist suspects at a meeting of European home affairs ministers in Brussels
today.

Leaders of the Muslim, Sikh, Christian and Hindu communities met in Manchester
yesterday to discuss an upsurge of anti-Islamic racism in the area.

The meeting, which was also attended by police and council representatives,
followed a firebomb attack on a mosque in Bolton, Greater Manchester, on Monday
night.

Afterwards, the leaders urged that recent incidents should not mar the "good and
cordial relationship" between their communities.

Since the US tragedy, an Afghan minicab driver has been left paralysed after he
was beaten up in west London and an Asian woman was attacked by a gang with
baseball bats in Swindon, Wiltshire.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              90 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                          September 20, 2001 Thursday

The question?

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 218  words



HIGHLIGHT: News : Cover story


As engineers, what are your views on the attack on the World Trade Center?

Like any other reasonably affluent human being I am as utterly appalled at the
sheer malice of the act, as I am at the state of hopelessness which drives
others to see it as a cause for celebration. As an engineer I believe such huge
buildings are inherently unsafe, the risks may be low - and I do not suggest
that aircraft impact should have been anticipated - but the severity is extreme.
If Hollywood was able to identify a disaster scenario in 'The Towering Inferno',
surely a rational engineering risk assessment should have done.

Anthony Taylor, 58, consultant, St Albans

Incomprehensible!

Tom Betts, 28, senior engineer, Northamptonshire

The attack on the World Trade Center indicates the inhumanity of man. Great
Britain is vulnerable to terrorist attacks, as has been demonstrated in the
recent past. As a nation, like others in the western world, we have sacrificed
the fine balance between security and freedom.

We allow our pensioners to live a frugal existence and yet pay millions out in
compensation to terrorists and non residents of the UK. We need a more balanced
approach in government and therefore more engineers in Parliament to help create
a better balance and more common sense.

J Easdon, 51, civil engineer, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 243 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 20, 2001

Trade Centre attack throws London airports into chaos.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: breaking news



London: Air travel from London has been thrown into chaos after the US was hit
by a devastating series of terrorist attacks.

Many US-bound flights had already left Britain when officials decided to shut
all US airports and ground all flights.

Officials at America-serving UK airports - such as Heathrow and Gatwick - were
trying to cope with the growing chaos.

It is not known whether the aircrafts will be rerouted back to the UK or
diverted to Canada.

A UK Airport spokeswoman said: "We're trying to find out where our in-flight
America-bound travellers will be able to land.

"It could be they may be able to put down in Canada. We also have a number of
flights due to leave for America later today.

"We are expecting that people on those flights will not be able to travel.''


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              92 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 20, 2001

Blair wins German pledge of 'solidarity' on action

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.3

LENGTH: 348 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair last night began a whirlwind round of diplomacy,
winning the backing of German Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder for military action
if needed to bring to account those responsible for the US terror attacks.

Mr Blair and Mr Schroeder, standing side by side in the Chancellery in Berlin,
both stressed the need for "solidarity" in the wake of last Tuesday's outrages.

Their comments came after a brief session of private talks before the leaders
went on to discuss the crisis over a working dinner. Later, Mr Blair was due to
fly to Paris ready for a breakfast meeting with President Jacques Chirac before
flying on to New York and Washington, returning for a special EU summit in
Brussels tomorrow.

After speculation that the German government might be cautious in its approach,
Mr Schroeder said: "We very much agree we went to provide unswerving and strong
solidarity with the US."

He said that would be "in political, economic and also if needed in military
terms too".

Mr Blair said the two leaders stood together and gave their "total support" to
the people of America. He said: "The terrible terrorist atrocity in the United
States cost many thousands of American citizens their lives. But I know there
were also German citizens and certainly many British citizens who lost their
lives too."

The Prime Minister said the more than 200 British victims of the attacks made it
the worst terrorist outrage to hit Britain since the war.

"It is with a real sense of solidarity that we stand here together tonight and
say that we give our total support to the people of the United States of
America," he said.

Mr Blair said there had also been "an extraordinary outpouring of solidarity
among the German people, as there has been in Britain".

"What is remarkable is that there is a growing and strengthening coalition not
just of support for the US and support for the measures that we need to take but
also a recognition that the time has indeed come for us to take the action
that's necessary against this evil of mass terrorism wherever it exists."

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              93 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 20, 2001

Britons back military response to terrorism

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 159 words


NEARLY eight in ten Britons support the idea of military attacks in response to
the US terrorist atrocities which killed more than 5,000 people, according to a
new survey.

And most citizens in the US and Israel even favour an armed response over
extraditing terrorists to stand trial, the 30-country Gallup poll showed.

Among the countries polled - including the US, Israel, Pakistan, 13 Western
European nations and seven from Central and Eastern Europe - support for
military attacks was highest this side of the Atlantic.

Popular support for military attacks was among the highest in Britain, the
findings show, with 79 per cent agreeing that the UK should take part in joint
raids.

Eight out of ten Danes surveyed supported retaliatory attacks, with 73 per cent
of those polled in France and 70 per cent in Portugal. But opinion is by no
means united across Europe, with most Austrians, Finns and Greeks opposing any
armed intervention.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              94 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 20, 2001

Blunkett puts clamp on port

SECTION: News, Pg.15

LENGTH: 187 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett yesterday announced a range of new measures
designed to crack down on asylum seekers smuggling themselves into the UK and to
fight against terrorism.

Mr Blunkett, speaking at Dover Eastern Docks, in Kent, also declared a gettough
policy on anyone inciting Islamic extremists.

Heightened security measures at airports and at ports in Kent are aimed at
cutting the number of illegal immigrants entering the country as well as
nullifying the threat of terrorism after the attacks on America.

Mr Blunkett said: "This is not just a problem limited to Britain but it is a
global issue of international mobility."

The new measures include five mobile gamma ray scanners costing 9 million to
detect hidden immigrants, to be placed at Dover and the Eurotunnel terminal at
Coquelles in France, and CCTV at Heathrow.

Extra immigration officers will be deployed at the Eurotunnel terminal and
almost 3,000 more detention centre places are planned.

Trials of new heartbeat sensors which can trace whether there is a living
creature in a vehicle are also being carried out.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              95 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

Police fear suicide bombers will soon target British cities

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 733 words

BRITAIN will become a target for anti-western Islamic violence, including
suicide bombings, for the first time following the US terror attacks, police and
security forces said yesterday.

Last week's atrocities have spurred a radical re-assessment of the terrorist
threat to Britain in the first decade of the 21st century.

Amid speculation about chemical and biological attacks, senior police officers
are more immediately concerned by their analysis that hard-line Islamic
terrorists will bring bullets and bombs to the streets of London and other
cities.

As a result, more resources will be be pumped into investigations by police and
MI5 of Islamic terror groups, traditionally seen as a lower priority than the
IRA. Given the Real IRA's recent campaign, resources are unlikely to be switched
from operations against Irish terrorism.

There is also likely to be a toughening of attitude to the monitoring of asylum
seekers from Afghanistan and other Middle Eastern countries to prevent
terrorists using peaceable immigrants as cover to enter Britain.

The most significant piece of accepted security wisdom to be overturned in the
past week, according to a senior security officer, is the view that - with the
exception of strikes by Palestinian groups on Israeli targets - Islamic
terrorists do not attack in London.

It has been felt that groups such as the Egyptian Islamic Jihad and the GIA of
Algeria have preferred to use Britain for fund-raising, communications and a
safe haven.

However, a senior security official said: "We've posed a lot of 'what ifs?'
since last week and our professional judgment is that the US attacks make it all
very different.

"We are all thinking ahead and the view is that, now, 'all bets are off' and
there could be attacks from these groups in London and elsewhere, against
American and possibly British targets, particularly if Britain supports US
military retaliation.

"The possibility of vehicles being driven through gates and blowing up hundreds
of people is probably remote, but walking terrorists, suicide bombers in the
streets, are much more likely. We don't think it will matter to them if innocent
civilians are killed.

"It has been thought they need Britain to raise money, but groups like Osama bin
Laden's have enough money."

A recent process of "target hardening" - tightening
security at such high-profile areas as Westminster, the City of London and
Canary Wharf against the threat of IRA bombs - will provide a defence against
attacks by Islamic extremists.

Airports have tight security as a result of the Irish threat. But Islamic
terrorists might not focus on largely political, economic and military targets,
as the IRA has tended to do.

The ease with which the New York and Washington terrorists evaded detection has
shaken the security establishment in Britain, according to the source. At the
heart of the debate now being conducted in Government is whether British police
and security services would have penetrated and prevented such a conspiracy.

The answer is bleak. Police and security chiefs have woken up to the fact that
their knowledge of those involved in clandestine Arab terrorist groupings, such
as bin Laden's, is thin, with little penetration by agents.

A veteran of Scotland Yard anti-terrorist operations said: "We looked at one or
two of the groups for raising money through low-level fraud and we've helped the
Americans after the African embassy bombings. But, quite frankly, they've not
been a high priority. The focus has been on the Irish."

Intelligence has been gathered by Special Branch on some groups, such as Islamic
Jihad and the GIA, at times with the help of the Egyptian, Algerian and other
Arab governments. The Israeli security service, Mossad, has traditionally
provided information on Palestinian terror groups. However, the senior security
source said: "It would be foolish if we were confident that those we had in our
sights were the ones we should be looking at. We have to face the possibility
that they might be a facade and there are completely unknown people out there.

"The more that is confirmed in the US, the more it seems the hijackers formed
their group and did not contact the people watched by the authorities. Not a
drop of intelligence leaked out. We have to think here, 'Do we know what the
enemy looks like now?' "
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              96 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Brown may cut spending after terror outrage

BYLINE: Paul Eastham

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 440 words


GORDON BROWN hinted yesterday that his optimistic forecasts for economic growth
in Britain may have to be heavily revised following the attacks.

The Chancellor said that 'nobody can deny' the impact of the outrage on business
confidence will be 'very big indeed' and agreed that it can only make the UK
downturn worse.

His gloomy words suggest he has finally accepted that his Budget predictions for
growth were too upbeat and that his lavish Government spending plans, which
depend on the forecasts being correct, may have to be scaled back.

At the time of the spring Budget, Mr Brown predicted that growth in 2002 would
be between 2.25 per cent and 2.75 per cent.

That was met with scepticism by economists, bankers and Opposition MPs.

The Chancellor dropped his hint about growth during a radio interview yesterday
as he described how international action was under way to ease the worst effects
of the terror attacks on the world economy.

'We are taking the decisive action that people expect us to take to maintain the
conditions for stability and growth in what are testing times for the world
economy,' he said.

But Mr Brown admitted: 'Nobody can deny that the impact of events from America,
from the airline industry to the insurance industry, are of course very big
indeed.' The interviewer on BBC Radio 4's World at One pressed him to accept
that the crisis 'must have an effect on growth'.

He pointed out that the U.S. economy was 'in a poor state', while manufacturing
in Britain was in recession. These events could only make those situations
worse.

Mr Brown replied: 'Yes, there are difficulties and these are testing times.'

He insisted, however, that Britain was well prepared to weather the problems.

It had low inflation and its public finances were under control.

Mr Brown's remarks raised suspicions among senior Tory MPs that he is simply
using the crisis as an excuse to abandon unrealistic forecasts which had become
an embarrassment.

City figures have long been convinced that the Chancellor's commitment to pump
tens of billions of pounds extra into public services over the next three years
was a gamble.

Since the terror attacks, stock markets around the world have plunged and a
string of industries have warned of job losses.

This means lower tax receipts for Mr Brown at a time when public spending is
rising.

City experts predict he could face a shortfall of GBP 20billion a year by
2003-2004. That would mean he could be forced to borrow huge amounts to keep
public services going, or raise taxes, or cut back the services he promised to
boost.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              97 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Culprits 'cashed in on atrocities'

BYLINE: Ruth Sunderland

SECTION: Pg. 70

LENGTH: 271 words


CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown could soon bring in sweeping new powers to crack down on
the funding of terrorism.

The measures, already in force in Northern Ireland to combat the IRA, may be
extended to cover all of Britain.

They require banks to report any transactions that are suspected of being linked
to terrorists.

Meanwhile, global financial regulators are stepping up investigations into
whether the perpetrators of last week's terrorist attacks have profited through
share dealing ahead of the outrage.

The Chicago Board Options Exchange said last night: 'We are probing trading
activity before the attacks.' There was a surge in dealingin so-called 'put
options' in several key stocks ahead of the atrocity last Tuesday, suggesting
that terrorists may have sought to cash in on their insider knowledge.

Put options are a relatively cheap way of making large gains by gambling that a
share price will fall.

Dealing was way above normal ahead of the attack, according to data from US
information service Bloomberg.

The shares concerned include United Airlines and American Airlines, the
companies that owned the crashed planes.

In addition, option trading in investment bank shares Morgan Stanley and Merrill
Lynch were 12 to 25 times above normal levels ahead of the attack.

Morgan Stanley occupied 22 floors of the World Trade Centre and Merrill has
offices close by.

Separately, Lloyd's of London insurance underwriter Amlin Plc estimates its net
exposure to the attacks at GBP 45m. It lost GBP 12.6m in the first half. The
shares, 109p before the outrage, rose 51/2p to 591/2p.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Britain is biggest investor

BYLINE: Richard Inder

SECTION: Pg. 71

LENGTH: 185 words


BRITAIN is the world's biggest overseas investor for the second year running,
according to a report by the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development.

Telecoms company Vodafone's GBP 113bn purchase of Germany's Mannesmann last
year, the world's biggest-ever takeover bid, helped the UK keep its place at the
top of the overseas investment league table. Most of the overseas investment is
made through British firms taking over foreign rivals or setting up subsidiaries
abroad.

Britain invested GBP 171.2bn abroad last year, ahead of France on GBP 117.8bn
and the US, which invested just under GBP 95.8bn. America remained the top
destination for attracting foreign investment, pulling in GBP 192.4bn.

The next most attractive global investment destination was Germany with GBP
120.5bn, thanks in part to the Vodafone takeover.

Britain attracted GBP 89.3bn, putting it third.

The report, which was largely completed before the terrorist attacks in the US,
also said that worldwide foreign investment will decline by 40pc this year to
GBP 520.5bn, the largest drop since 1991.


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              99 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

TERRORIST ATTACK USA: CABBIE FIGHTS FOR HIS LIFE AFTER ATTACK

BYLINE: Jan Disley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 250 words


AN Afghan cabbie beaten and left for dead in a revenge attack for the US
massacres fled his country to escape violence there.

Haniddullah Gharwal, 28, of Acton, Middlesex, sought a better life in Britain
after living under the extremism of the ruling Taliban.

But he was brutally attacked by three white racists shouting abuse about the
twin towers disaster and was left paralysed from the neck down.

Last night he was fighting for his life in a London hospital.

His ordeal is just one story from a catalogue of shame across Britain.

In South Shields, Tyneside, vandals daubed graffiti on walls urging people:
"Avenge USA - kill a Moslem now."

The sick graffiti - 6ft high and 8ft wide - was splashed in red letters on a
white wall just yards from a mosque.

Local Labour MP David Miliband condemned the vandals and called for unity to
stop far-right groups turning "outrage" to "hatred".

A 20-year-old Bangladeshi man was badly beaten by a gang in a park in South
Shields at the weekend.

Mosques in Manchester and Bolton have also been firebombed in the aftermath of
the terrorist atrocity.

Last night, in an article for the Daily Jang, a London-based newspaper for the
Asian community, Prime Minister Tony Blair stressed the terrorists did not
represent Britain's Moslems.

Blair wrote: "Barbarism of the kind we have just witnessed is totally foreign to
the true spirit and values of Islam which puts so much stress on tolerance and
respect for human life."

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              100 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 19, 2001

Attack on America: Diplomacy: Blair distances UK from 'dead or alive' claim:
Prime minister reluctant to echo Bush

BYLINE: Michael White and Lucy Ward

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 487 words


Tony Blair's breakneck drive to consolidate the worldwide diplomatic coalition
needed to thwart the new wave of terrorist attacks yesterday drew back from
endorsing George Bush's colourful claim that the United States wanted Osama bin
Laden, its prime suspect, "dead or alive".

As Downing Street hastily finalised the prime minister's emergency visit to
Berlin tonight - and on to Paris, New York and dinner with Mr Bush in Washington
tomorrow - his spokesman was reluctant to use the kind of flamboyant language
that the president deployed on American television yesterday.

"The president will express his own views in his own words. The prime minister
and the president continue to discuss these matters in a calm and measured way,"
said the spokesman, who preferred to stress the importance of bringing suspects
in the attacks on New York City and the Pentagon to justice.

Yesterday Mr Blair spoke by telephone to President Jiang Zemin of China, seeking
Chinese support for whatever package of military, commercial and diplomatic
actions are deemed necessary to counter a threat that could include biological,
chemical or even nuclear attacks.

Mr Blair is said not to believe that such capacity exists among potential
attackers in Britain, but officials know that western intelligence warnings
proved woefully inadequate last week.

David Blunkett, the home secretary, yesterday signalled tighter extradition
proceedings, another part of the emerging package of EU counter-measures.

A No 10 spokesman said EU countries had been considering fast-track extradition
procedures for some months, and one of the issues to be discussed would be
whether this would require the creation of an EU-wide arrest warrant.

Iain Duncan Smith, the new Tory leader, struck what No 10 will regard as a
helpful note yesterday when he called for military readiness but also for
"restraint, in the sense that we don't commit ourselves to military action until
it is necessary". The former soldier told ITV: "The British public need to
understand - and I hope they will - that this is not about one man. The truth is
this is a war against an attitude, it is a war against people who are prepared
to do away with anybody, to lose every life including their own.

"It may not be enough that Bin Laden alone is given up. What we need to see,
ultimately, is the end of organisations like his and the end of that attitude
that says that life is so cheap that we can do away with it whenever we choose."

Mr Blair spent the day at Chequers with African leaders, discussing the
international crisis. A joint statement condemned the atrocities "in the
strongest possible terms".

* The GMB union yesterday suspended its planned pounds 1m campaign against
government plans for public service reform. The union said: "It is simply
inappropriate to argue over this at a time when we should be showing
solidarity."


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 19, 2001

Boeing to axe 30,000 in wake of terrorism

BYLINE: WAYNE VEYSEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 447 words



BOEING is expected to lay off 20-30 per cent of its commercial airline work
force - roughly 31,000 people - as a result of last week's terrorist attacks.
The White House and Congress are already considering a federal aid package for
the airline industry to help it recover.  The industry has asked for GBP 16.3bn.

Now unions in Britain are bracing themselves for further job cuts as shockwaves
from the US terrorist attacks continued to hit UK airlines.  Pilots' leaders
yesterday called on the British government to give the GBP 1bn a year airport
tax back to airlines to help stave off job losses.

Roughly 93,000 people work for Boeings' commercial airline sector in the US,
much of which is centred on the company's former headquarters in Seattle.  In
the US the unprecedented package will give the airlines short-term cash worth up
to GBP 200m to cover the huge losses they incurred when all flights were
cancelled in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks.

And it will include long-term subsidies to keep the vital services afloat as
they deal with increased security costs and the likelihood of soaring fuel
prices, as well as a downturn in travel.  Air firms have already announced
thousands of lay-offs and cutbacks in the numbers of flights.  American
transport secretary Norman Mineta said he hoped to have a legislative package in
place by early next week, which would guarantee immediate relief to the
companies.

Meanwhile in Britain, executives from British Airways, Virgin Atlantic and bmi
British Midland have met Transport Secretary Stephen Byers to discuss security
and how to maintain public confidence in flying.  Further talks will be held,
including meetings with charter and low cost carriers, in a bid to maintain the
competitive position of airlines.

The British Airline Pilots Association is seeking talks with ministers in the
next few days to press its case.  Christopher Darke, general secretary, said:
Redirecting the airline passenger duty tax is the most immediate help the
Government can give. It would be short-term but bring long-term benefits.
Thousands of jobs might not have to be cut and UK airlines would not lose their
share of what everyone agrees will be, for a time, a smaller market.''

Virgin Atlantic has already announced 1,200 job cuts and unions fear British
Airways will unveil redundancies in the next few days.  The three airline bosses
said they had had constructive talks with Mr Byers during yesterday's 30-minute
meeting.

Virgin's Sir Richard Branson said Mr Byers had promised to set up a committee
immediately to examine the issues.  Airport crisis: Pages 8-9

C

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              102 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 19, 2001, Wednesday

We know that such cruelty is contrary to Islam, says Blair

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 703 words


TONY BLAIR has told Muslims in Britain that they are not under siege. In an
article for a London-based daily newspaper for the Asian community, he wrote
that the people of Britain "realise that neither you nor Islam is in any way
responsible for what happened in the United States".

Zahoor Niazi, Editor of the Daily Jang, said that Downing Street had approached
him about running the article. He said: "It was Mr Blair's concern that Muslims
in general should not be blamed for all the heinous acts committed in America.
We speak to No 10 quite often, but on this occasion they called us."

The Daily Jang is Britain's only daily newspaper for Asians, and prints in
English and Urdu.

In his article, Mr Blair wrote:

People across our country -and across the world -have been united in shock,
disbelief and revulsion at the terrorist attacks in the United States last week.

Communities, countries and faiths have come together in condemnation of those
responsible for this evil and in sympathy and sorrow for the thousands of
victims.

The scale of the catastrophe has been difficult to comprehend. The loss of life
has been enormous.

Thousands of heartbroken families -not just in America but in every corner of
the globe -are grieving for the loss of their loved ones.

I'm afraid that they include hundreds of families here in Britain. There is no
doubt that this is one of the worst terrorist outrages involving British
citizens since the Second World War.

The victims of these indiscriminate terrorist attacks were innocent men, women
and children of many, many nationalities and of all faiths.

Such acts of despicable cruelty are, I know, wholly contrary to the Islamic
faith as Muslim leaders and clerics here in Britain have made clear, Barbarism
of the kind we have just witnessed is totally foreign to the true spirit and
values of Islam which puts so much stress on tolerance and respect for human
life.

I want to assure Daily Jang readers that the vast majority of decent people in
Britain realise that neither you nor Islam is in any way responsible for what
happened in the United States last week.

Those responsible are not communities nor religions but fanatical individuals.
Blaming Islam is as ludicrous as blaming Christianity for loyalist attacks on
Catholics or nationalist attacks on Protestants in Northern Ireland.

On the contrary, we know that the overwhelming majority of Muslims totally
condemn these atrocities as the strong statement of the Muslim Council of
Britain last week made clear, denouncing the "senseless and evil acts that appal
the people of conscience".

It's why Muslim states are among those helping to build the international
coalition to bring to justice those responsible for these terrorist attacks and
to work together to prevent such artrocities in the future.

Terrorism of this kind knows no mercy, no pity nor national borders. It is also
an attack not just on innocent people but on the values of tolerance, freedom
and democracy that underpin our way of life.

So the international community is coming together to tackle this collective
threat to our security, our nations and our values.

We need to identify the groups behind terrorism of this kind, how they operate,
how they move about the world, how they are financed and how they are supported.

We must act carefully but with real resolve.

And I would add that, now more than ever, we have reason not to let the Middle
East peace process slip still further but, if at all possible, to re invigorate
it and move it forward.

Despite the scale of the tragedy, there has been no rush to retaliate by the
United States.

Instead the US deserves credit, at a time of tremendous national emotion, for
patience and care as it has gathered together -with help from intelligence
sources round the world -the evidence which reveals the people and groups behind
last week's attacks.

That must continue just as we will continue patiently building the international
coalition of the civilised countries of the world to hold to account those
responsible for last week's mass murder and to dismantle the machinery of
terrorism which made it possible.


LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 19, 2001

City commemorates victims of attack

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 320 words


HUNDREDS of people gathered in Plymouth's St Andrew's Church last night for a
special service of commemoration for the victims of last week's terrorist
attacks in the USA.

The service was held at the request of the office of Plymouth's Lord Mayor, Coun
David Viney, and comprised four parts - silence, reflection, prayer and hope.

The rector of St Andrew's, the Rev Nick McKinnell, said the service gave people
an opportunity to join at a critical moment in world affairs. At the beginning
of the service candles were lit by people representing different groups linked
with the tragedy.

The first candle was lit by Capt Walter G Scull, commander of the Joint Marine
Facility at RAF St Mawgan, the second was lit by Derriford Hospital consultant
Dr J Rahammin, who was representing Devon's Muslim community, the third was lit
by a representative of Devon fire and rescue service, the fourth by US-born
Plymouth resident Sheryl Luscombe and the final candle was lit by a
representative of the Roman Catholic Bishop of Plymouth.

Capt Scull read out a letter from Bill Ferris, the US ambassador to Britain, who
thanked the people of Plymouth for their moral support following the attack. He
said he had been deeply moved by the outpouring of sympathy from the UK.

The Bishop of Plymouth, the Rt Rev John Garton, said there was a need to respond
in such a way to prevent further attacks and bring the terrorists to justice.

"But the overall situation is so fraught with danger that it requires a great
deal of thought, wisdom and prayer and courage if we are to avoid a yet more
perilous and dangerous war using all manner of dreadful weapons," he said.

Bishop Garton said that it was almost inevitable that people felt angry and
called for retaliation.

"Revenge in itself is very unlikely to overcome the conflicts and terrorism in
the Middle East and might well make them rather worse," he said.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              104 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 19, 2001

Defence boss warns of germ warfare threat;
 Terrorists could slaughter millions in attack

BYLINE: Tristan Cork

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 409 words


BRITAIN must guard against the increasing threat of chemical or biological
attack, the Defence Secretary warned last night.

Secretary of State Geoff Hoon said the terrorist attacks in America had made the
British Government "think afresh" about how to prevent an attack which could
kill millions.

Mr Hoon admitted the Government "hadn't prepared" for the kinds of fanaticism
that people were prepared to use in order to achieve their "appalling
objectives."

Now government departments are rapidly redrawing emergency plans, with the
realisation the same terrorists behind last Tuesday's attacks in America could
slaughter millions with just one briefcase of germs here in Britain.

Security at airports, ports and the Channel Tunnel is being stepped up in a bid
to stop biological weapons entering the country.

Experts warned that in the wrong hands, biological weapons like anthrax or the
nerve gas sarin could kill millions of people if spread around London or other
major British cities.

And in the light of the suicide attacks in America, politicians are warning a
more serious attack is a possibility.

"It's certainly something we have to guard against, " said Mr Hoon. "I believe
that the appalling events of last week have certainly caused us to think afresh
about the preventive actions we need to take."

His fears were echoed by Conservative leader Ian DuncanSmith, who said it was
clear groups such as that which carried out last Tuesday's terror attacks would
be prepared to use weapons of mass destruction.

"The worry is that if these people are capable of flying an aircraft into a
tower, they are quite capable of using a biological or nuclear weapon or a
missile, " he said.

Complex nerve gases and other weapons of mass destruction have been developed by
the likes of Saddam Hussein and other Arab nations. Vast stores of them are said
to have been left behind during the collapse of the former Soviet Union in what
are still relatively unstable nations bordering Afghanistan and Iran.
Intelligence chiefs fear that although the operation to inspect and destroy
sites in Iraq, where Saddam Hussein had been developing such weapons, was hailed
a success, some of them could already have been smuggled out of Iraq.

It is feared a hidden trade in such weapons could be going on between Arab
nations, warlords in former Soviet republics and with terror groups like Osama
bin Laden's Al-Queda network.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              105 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: HOLY WAR;
 TALIBAN PREPARE FOR US INVASION OVER BIN LADEN

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 449 words


TALIBAN leaders today warned of a possible invasion and urged Afghans to prepare
for a holy war against the United States.

The show of defiance came on the day the Taliban regime was deciding whether to
hand over wanted terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden to the Americans and as
troops massed on the Pakistan-Afghan border.

Tension

Throughout Afghanistan Taliban leaders sent a message to their people: 'Stay
united and prepare for jihad against US invaders,' the Taliban's Bakhtar News
Agency reported.

But the report was one of only several coming out of the region - another said
that the Taliban, in talks with Pakistani officials, had set conditions for the
possible handover of Saudi-born bin Laden, demanding he be allowed to go to a
neutral Islamic country to face trial.

With tension mounting around the world, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon warned
Britain needed to guard against terrorist attacks using chemical or biological
weapons.

And Prime Minister Tony Blair prepared to set off on an exhausting round of
shuttle diplomacy, criss-crossing the Atlantic for talks in Berlin, Paris,
Washington, New York and Brussels.

Mullah Mohammed Hasan Akhond, the deputy Taliban leader, said: 'If America
attacks our home it is necessary for all Muslims, especially for Afghans, to
wage a holy war.'

'God is on our side and if the world's people try to set fire to Afghanistan,
God will protect us and help us,' he was quoted as saying.

Hundreds of Islamic clerics have converged on the capital, Kabul, to decide
whether to hand over the prime suspect for last week's

terrorist attacks, Osama bin Laden,

'About 300 ulema (clerics) have already arrived. We expect about 700, and we
hope we can start later this afternoon,' said Mullah Hamdullah Nomani, Kabul
mayor and convener of the grand council of Islamic clerics.

President George Bush said the United States was determined to get bin Laden
'dead or alive'.

The Taliban has previously strongly resisted demands to hand over bin Laden, who
is described as a 'guest' of the regime.

Earlier Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said British intelligence had independently
established that bin Laden was the 'prime suspect' for the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and Pentagon.

The move cleared the way for UK forces to take part in military action after
Prime Minister Tony Blair said at the weekend that Britain would be making its
own judgment on who was responsible for the suicide attacks.

oTwo thirds of Britons back military strikes against those behind last week's
terror attacks but there is less stomach for a prolonged war against terrorism,
according to a poll published today.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              106 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: ARSON FEAR AS MOQUE DAMAGED

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 175 words


A MOSQUE has been damaged by fire amid fears of a backlash against Muslim
communities following the US terrorist attack.

Police today said the fire last night at the Alvia mosque on Bromwich Street in
Bolton, Greater Manchester, was being treated as suspicious. It follows a number
of attacks on the Muslim community in Britain.

Several mosques have been daubed with graffiti and one Afghan taxi driver was
left paralysed from the neck down after he was beaten up in London.

Muslim leaders and police have appealed for calm.

The violence reflected other incidents in the US. A man in Arizona has been
charged with murdering a turbaned Indian immigrant in a weekend rampage
prosecutors said was motivated by ethnic hatred.

Among other attacks were an attack on a Moroccan petrol station attendant in
Palos Heights, Illinois, an attempt to run over a Pakistani woman in a car park
in Huntington, New York. FBI Director Robert Mueller warned yesterday that
federal authorities will not tolerate 'vigilante attacks' by Americans.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              107 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: BRITS DEATH TOLL TO HIT 250

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 167 words


THE UK death toll in the US terror strikes could reach 250, the British
Ambassador said as he established a shrine to those who died.

Sir Christopher Meyer, the British Ambassador to the United States, was speaking
as the first British relatives of those killed in the terrorist attacks on the
World Trade Centre began to fly out to New York.

Sir Christopher, accompanied by his wife, Lady Catherine, and the Consul General
Tom Harris, established a shrine to the dead Britons at The Church of Our Lady
of the Rosary, near Battery Park, Manhattan, the closest church to the World
Trade Centre.

'I think anybody who is not moved by this outrage and its human consequences is
not himself or herself human,' he said.

He said no confirmed figures were available for the number of Britons killed but
added it was likely to be in the region of 250, or 'maybe somewhat more than
that'.

A team of 20 police officers and 10 grief counsellors has also arrived in New
York from Britain.

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              108 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

CHEMICAL ATTACK FEAR TO 'GUARD AGAINST' LOOK AFRESH: Geoff Hoon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 189 words


BRITAIN needs to "guard against" the threat of a biological attack following the
terrorist atrocities in America, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said today.

Mr Hoon said a war was being fought ag-ainst terrorism and that "determined,
rob-ust, and rigorous action" was needed to deal with the perpetrators of last
week's atrocities in the US.

Asked how realistic the threat of a chemical attack was in Britain, Mr Hoon
said: "It's certainly something that we have to guard against.

"I believe that the appalling events of last week have certainly caused us to
think afresh about the preventative actions we need to take."

Mr Hoon told BBC Radio 4's Today programme people must not "underestimate the
significance" of what happened in America.

"We hadn't prepared for the kinds of fanaticism that people were prepared to use
in order to achieve their appalling objectives.

"We will have to change the way that we approach airline security," he added.

The Defence Sec-retary refused to say whether British troops would definitely be
involved in US-led military action against the perpetrators of the attack.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

ARSONISTS STRIKE AT MOSQUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 116 words


A MOSQUE has been damaged by fire amid fears of a backlash against Muslims
following the US terrorist attack.

Police said the fire last night at the Alvia mosque in Bolton, Greater
Manchester, was being treated as suspicious.

It follows a number of attacks on the Muslim community in Britain.

Several mosques have been daubed with graffiti and one Afghan taxi driver was
left paralysed from the neck down after he was beaten in London.

Muslim leaders and police have appealed for calm.

A spokesman for Greater Manchester Police said the blaze broke out last night,
adding: "It was minor and no one was injured but several windows were smashed as
a result of the fire."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

British tourism festival scrapped

BYLINE: By Sarah Womack, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 785 words

PLANS by the Royal Family to boost British tourism by launching a "UK in NY"
festival in New York are to be cancelled today.

The large-scale promotion of Britain, headed by Prince Andrew and backed by the
Foreign Office, the British Council and chambers of commerce, is likely to
become a small-scale "show of solidarity" with New York instead.

The festival, scheduled to run from Oct 14-28, was sponsored by British Airways.
It was intended to promote the British tourist industry, which is reeling from
the foot and mouth crisis and the weakening global economy.

But with air passenger confidence badly hit, and holidaymakers cancelling
bookings, the event is considered inappropriate in its planned form.

Last night, a spokesman for the British Tourist Authority said: "People are
grieving and we have to be very sensitive to that." He said British tourism was
not in "meltdown" but the effect of the terrorist attacks would be serious.

It was impossible to predict how many Americans would stop travelling to Britain
but during the Gulf war visitor numbers dropped by 22 per cent.  (END OF TEXT)

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              111 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 18, 2001

OUR TROOPS
IN OMAN Sub - Head: TERROR: First pictures of the British war games that could
soon be for real

BYLINE: n by CHARLIE MORTON, Defence Reporter

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 107 words


THIS was the scene in the sweltering desert of Oman today as thousands of
soldiers - including hundreds from Plymouth - prepared for the Britain's biggest
military exercise for 15 years.

Preparations for Exercise Saif Sareea - due to begin in Oman within the next two
weeks - are continuing as the world waits to see when US president George Bush
will launch an attack on nearby Afghanistan in revenge for the terrorist attacks
on the World Trade Center last week.

A fleet of 24 Royal Navy ships, including five based in Plymouth, two
submarines, and hundreds of Royal Marines are taking part.

- Turn to Pages 4&5

- Comment - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              112 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 18, 2001

The shows go on: London Fashion Week opens

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 358 words


The frippery-filled world of fashion confounded its critics yesterday when it
became sombre and serious in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the US.

The solemnity of the last few days was marked by a minute's silence before the
first show to launch the biannual London Fashion Week. Nicholas Coleridge, the
British Fashion Council chairman, extended his sympathies to all Americans and
said that a number of saddened US nationals had still come to London to
participate in the shows.

"To give up would be to give in to these perpetrators of evil, and that we must
never do," he said. "Fashion is Britain's sixth-biggest industry. We can't walk
away from it. The show just has to go on."

And so it did. The opening display was, as in this year's previous shows, from
the British designer Ronit Zilkha. Her collection was all understated powder
blues and taupes, floating hemlines and ruched-up tops, encrusted with crystal
butterflies.

Though some shows were cancelled - Justin Oh, who had been due to put on the
second show yesterday pulled out along with Burberry, Paul Smith, Clements
Ribeiro, Katherine Hamnett and Nicole Farhi - and some were postponed, the
majority continued.

Jasper Conran unveiled a collection which could be described as rive gauche
chic, with tightly-tailored pencil skirts and shirts, tuxedo jackets and neat,
knitted berets contrasting with softer, polka-dot dresses as well as luxurious
napa leather coats, shirts and jackets all bold in red, white and black.

The greatest applause was for Arkadius Weremczuk, whose show began with a
shaven-headed model with an image of Jesus's head between her bare breasts, and
finished with another model wearing a religious painting and gold trousers.

In February, the Polish-born designer's show was entitled Prostitution?;
yesterday it was Virgin Mary Wears the Trousers.

While the day's audiences were thoughtful, given all the reminders of what had
happened in the US, the response to the collections was anything but muted. And,
as one fashion journalist said optimistically, "not all the parties are
cancelled". The show did go on.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              113 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 18, 2001

Chemical attack threat to Britain

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 413 words


Hoon in terror warning



BRITAIN must be on its guard against biological and chemical weapon attacks, the
government warned today.

Asked how realistic the threat of a chemical or germ attack was in Britain,
Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said: It's certainly something that we have to
guard against.

I believe that the appalling events last week have certainly caused us to think
afresh about the preventive actions we need to take.  I don't unnecessarily want
to alarm people, but there are well-worked, rehearsed contingency plans
involving the police, fire and other emergency services.''

Labour MP Paul Flynn said terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden was trying to
provoke a response so he could up the stakes.  He said: He would then have the
pretext to use nuclear, chemical or biological weapons.  The greatest danger
would be biological weapons.''

If a couple of dozen men armed with penknives, bent on martrydom, can kill 5,000
people and cause all this damage, someone with a suitcase full of anthrax could
kill millions, he added.  And senior US Congresswoman Jane Harman said today: I
don't want to scare anybody, but there is a real threat of either a biological
or chemical attack on America or somewhere else in the world.''

Today an opinion poll suggested that most British people support military
strikes to punish those responsible for the terrorist attacks on the US.  The
ICM poll found 66 per cent want military action, with just 14 per cent opposed
to strikes.

Some 76 per cent of Labour voters support military strikes, compared with 69 per
cent of Tory voters and 59 per cent of Liberal Democrat voters.  But there were
more words of caution from Labour MPs, after International Development Secretary
Clare Short said it would be unbearable if more innocent people were killed.

Mr Hoon said a range of military options were being drawn up in co-operation
with America.  A decision on whether British troops get involved in US action
would be taken by the Prime Minister and the government.

Mr Hoon added: No decisions have yet been taken, but it is important that we
bring the perpetrators to account and recognise that they are part of an
international terrorist organisation that is capable of striking throughout the
world.  This is a war against terrorism, a war we have to take to the heart of
those countries that are sheltering these terrorists.''



LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              114 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

Britain points to prime suspect

BYLINE: Michael Evans, Defence Editor

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 711 words


BRITAIN'S intelligence services have concluded that Osama bin Laden is correctly
viewed as the prime suspect in the search for those behind last week's terrorist
attacks on the United States, Jack Straw said yesterday.

The conclusion follows an assessment of all available secret information by the
Cabinet Office's Joint Intelligence Committee (JIC).

"One thing is now clear, and I say this not only from what has been said in the
United States but from our own separate intelligence assessment, and that is
that Osama bin Laden and his organisation are plainly the prime suspects for
this terrorist outrage," the Foreign Secretary said on BBC Radio 4's Today
programme.

The conviction that bin Laden was involved followed a review of all intelligence
from British and other sources. MI6 and GCHQ, the signals intelligence centre in
Cheltenham, have focused most of their efforts since last Tuesday's attacks on
gathering a mass of covertly acquired information to help the Americans to build
up a picture of bin Laden's whereabouts, his movements, the known locations of
members of his al-Qaeda organisation and the suspected financing of his
terrorist operations.

MI5 has also been heavily involved in gathering intelligence in Britain and
abroad. Its "G" Branch, which deals with international terrorism, has liaison
officers overseas keeping in contact with their counterparts in the Middle East
and elsewhere.

The FBI has also been feeding leads to MI5 and the police in Britain as its
investigation has progressed in the US. One of these tip-offs led to a raid by
police on an address in London, but the house was empty and provided no useful
clues.

Intelligence assessments carried out by France, Germany and Israel have also
pointed to bin Laden as the mastermind behind the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre and the Pentagon. Mossad, the Israeli secret service, unlike most
Western intelligence agencies, has agents spread throughout the Arab and Muslim
world and has been providing vital details that a network of even the most
sophisticated American spy satellites could never hope to extract from coded
telephone conversations between terrorists across the globe.

With comparatively little information on bin Laden available to the Americans
from its own human intelligence resources, the United States is finding it
necessary to rely for the most part on the assistance of foreign governments
from the region.

With the majority of countries pledged to support the US, intelligence has been
passed on to the Americans from every quarter, including Russia, Pakistan, the
Gulf States, India and throughout the Middle East. The Russian foreign
intelligence service, the SVR, is reported to have supplied information on
Islamic groups working with bin Laden, including Jamiyat al Islamiya, which has
links to Pakistan and Saudi Arabia.

The key to the intelligence jigsaw has been information supplied by Pakistan,
which has the most intimate knowledge of the Taleban regime in Afghanistan and
its harbouring of bin Laden. In the 1980s, during the Soviet occupation of
Afghanistan, the Pakistani intelligence services and the CIA co-ordinated
efforts to help the Mujahidin guerrillas to defeat the Russian forces.

To support the flow of human intelligence material coming from countries
bordering Afghanistan and from the Middle East, the US National Security Agency
(NSA), which runs the so-called Echelon satellite eavesdropping system, has been
trying to monitor telephone calls between the United States and parts of the
world that might present further leads linking last week's terrorist attacks to
the bin Laden organisation.

A similar intelligence-gathering operation was started in 1993 after the bomb
attack on the World Trade Centre. Intensive efforts by the FBI, CIA and NSA led
to the capture in Pakistan of the bomb-plot leader, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who was
linked to bin Laden. Also apprehended were Wali Khan Amin Shah, another bin
Laden associate, who allegedly planned to blow up 12 American airliners and
assassinate the Pope in the Philippines; and Mir Aimal Kasi, who shot dead two
CIA employees sitting in a car outside the agency's headquarters at Langley,
Virginia, in 1993.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              115 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 18, 2001

Build-up to war as the world holds its breath.

BYLINE: Sian Davies (author email sian.davies@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 1100 words

DATELINE: Southampton



AFGHANISTAN's ruling Taliban militia were today told to hand over Osama Bin
Laden or face the wrath of the United States.

The ultimatum was issued by Pakistani officials who travelled to neighbouring
Afghanistan to persuade the ruling Taliban to give up Bin Laden - the number one
suspect for the terrorist attacks that brought devastation to America last week.

And there was speculation that if he is not handed over George Bush will use
force and unleash the military might of the US any time after Thursday.

The delegation arrived in southern Kandahar, the heart of Taliban territory
early today.

Led by the deputy head of Pakistan's secret service Major-General Faiz Gilani,
the delegation was due to meet the Taliban's reclusive leader, Mullah Mohammed
Omar.

He is the man who declared himself Amir-ul-Momineen or leader of the Muslims,
when he launched the Taliban movement in Afghanistan in the mid-1990s.

Omar doesn't meet many visitors, but diplomatic sources said he has agreed to
see the delegation.

The warning comes as New York's stock exchange prepared to reopen today.

President Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those responsible, with
Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday promising him Britain's full support.

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
and "the whole of the civilised world".

He said he would not flinch from the military strikes that appear inevitable but
would "see this thing through".

Meanwhile, New York's financial sector was getting back to work for the first
time since Tuesday's attack on the World Trade Centre in New York and the
Pentagon in Washington by hijacked airliners.

But just yards from where people returned to their offices, the desperate search
for life continued amid the rubble of the collapsed twin towers of the trade
centre, even as officials admitted hope was fading of finding anyone still
alive.

And Mr Bush was pressing forward with preparations to go after Bin Laden.

Last night Mr Bush warned the American people they faced a long conflict against
a shadowy enemy.

"It is time for us to win the first war of the 21st century decisively," he
said, as he arrived at the White House after a weekend laying plans for the
campaign with his top advisers.

He added: "The American people should know that my administration is determined
to find them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to
America.

"I want to remind the American people that the prime suspect's organisation is
in lots of countries. This will be a long campaign, a determined campaign, a
campaign that we will use the resources of the United States to win."

And Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the
Taliban.

He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to get rid of
this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour and key source for food and fuel, has told
America it will meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and
allow the US air force to use its skies.

And it was telling the Taliban to hand over Bin Laden or face "massive
retaliation" in a country already devastated by 30 years of civil war.

But Bin Laden has denied he was involved in the attacks and said: "I stress that
I have not carried out this act, which appears to have been carried out by
individuals with their own motivation."

He is believed to be in hiding in the inaccessible Afghan mountains, with
followers who may number in the thousands.

The warning to the Afghan regime came after more arrests in America of people
the FBI believe are "material witnesses" in the case.

Two men arrested in Texas were said to be co-operating with police and providing
valuable information about the terrorist network which supported the 19
hijackers before they carried out the attacks.

Two other men are in custody, arrested as "material witnesses" while an unknown
number of people were also in custody for immigration violations.

And more arrests were expected today, after a spokeswoman for the American
justice department said more warrants to detain people were likely to be issued.

The investigation is already the biggest in criminal history, with thousands of
FBI agents, backed by local police, support staff, technicians and other federal
agents, looking into 40,000 potential leads.

Anti-terrorism laws in America are likely to be rewritten to help police in the
hunt.

In New York, the number of people reported missing fell to 4,957 _ after city
officials rechecked lists _ with 190 bodies recovered.

The last person found alive in the debris of the centre was pulled to safety on
Wednesday and last night Mayor Rudolph Giuliani admitted hope was fading _ but
vowed to go on.

The hope is still there that we might be able to save some lives, but the
reality is that in the last several days we have not recovered anyone alive,''
said the mayor.

In any event, we are going to search for the people, at the same time realising
that the losses here are staggering.''

The first funerals of the victims of the attacks have begun to take place, but
only a handful have been laid to rest in comparison with the huge numbers still
missing.

And the city bowed its head in prayer last night at a mass in St Patrick's
Cathedral for the dead and the survivors.

The service was the first public expression of the city's grief and came at the
end of the grimmest week in its history.

Celebrated by Cardinal Edward Egan, the leader of the city's Catholics, the
congregation included Mr Giuliani and United Nations Secretary-General Kofi
Annan _ and thousands stood outside the cathedral to take part.

Calling the former World Trade Centre ground hero'', Cardinal Egan said: This
past week, you and I and all of Greater New York have seen evil up close.

I have proudly watched New York and our nation in action under over the last six
days. I am filled with confidence in their goodness, in their courage and in
their faith.''

The city was also beginning to look to the future, with a commission being set
up to look at how to rebuild the World Trade Centre and guarantee the future of
Manhattan's economy.

And in the skies, travel was continuing to get back to normal, under tight
security, but the price of terrorism for the American airline firms was
beginning to emerge.

Continental Airlines, one of the big-three carriers, along with United and
American, revealed it was axing 12,000 jobs because of the anticipated plunge in
bookings.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              116 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 18, 2001

Air cadets pay tribute to Battle of Britain heroes

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.22

LENGTH: 163 words


MORE than 300 young air cadets marched through Exeter on Sunday to commemorate
the 61st anniversary of the Battle of Britain.

The cadets, from Exeter and Somerset, marched through the city centre before
laying a wreath at the foot of the war memorial outside Exeter cathedral.

The sombre ceremony, watched by around 100 onlookers, was made even more
poignant by last week's appalling terrorist attacks on America. That tragedy was
remembered in a special service at Exeter cathedral. Several Royal Air Force
veterans also gathered to pay their respects to those who lost their lives in
the Second World War's pivotal air battle.

RAF veteran Maurice Bartlett, 69, who served in the Suez Canal Zone in the early
1950s, said: "As an old RAF man, I want to remember the Battle of Britain and
also what happened this week.

"We must find and punish those responsible. They have taken countless lives and
destroyed families."

SOLEMN MOMENTS: RAF veteran Maurice Bartlett

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              117 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 18, 2001, Tuesday

DIPLOMAT'S VISIT TO CENTRE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280 words


BRITAIN'S Ambassador to America, Sir Christopher Meyer, last night visited the
centre for relatives of British victims of the terror attacks.

Sir Christopher and his wife, Lady Catherine, made the visit the day before the
first British families being flown over to New York by the Government were
expected to arrive.

The current estimate is that up to 250 British citizens were killed.

Sir Christopher said he had been "greatly impressed" by the preparations made by
the British Consulate in New York to receive the relatives.

"The first thing I wanted to do . . .

was to see what the arrangements were like for families when they come to the
city to try to track and trace their loved ones."

More than 30 police family liaison officers and counsellors have been flown from
Britain to help the families, who have been given flights and three days'
accommodation by the British Government.

"The challenge this week is to be able to deal sensitively and respectfully with
some very distressed people who fear the worst for their loved ones, " said Sir
Christopher.

"The situation at the moment is that since international air travel has resumed
across the Atlantic a few families, not much more than a handful, have flown in
under their own steam.

"I think we will see the first of those whose travel have been arranged by the
British Government tomorrow.

"The British team here in New York I think is very well prepared to receive
them."

Sir Christopher said it was unlikely families would be able to visit the scene
of the attacks while the recovery operation continues but said he hoped they
would be able to trace their loved ones.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              118 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          $%Investment Adviser adviser

                            September 17, 2001 2001

Britain falls silent silent

SECTION: ISSN. 1361-1593 1593

LENGTH: 40 words words


CITY workers joined the world in observing a three-minute silence on Friday to
honour victims of New Yorks terrorist attack. Later the Queen and Prime Minister
Tony Blair attended a memorial service at St Pauls Cathedral in London.  london.

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001 2001

LANGUAGE: English english

            Copyright 2001 Financial Times Business Limited limited

                              119 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

BRITAIN AT WAR, PM TELLS WORLD;
 REPORTS AND PICTURES: PAGES 2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10 AND 11

BYLINE: Jon Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 508 words

HIGHLIGHT: TONY BLAIR


PRIME Minister Tony Blair told the world yesterday that Britain was now at war
with the terrorists who struck at America and "the whole of the civilised
world".

He said he would not flinch from the military strikes that now appear inevitable
but would "see this thing through".

Attention focused on Afghanistan, base of the suicide hijackings "prime
suspect", Osama bin Laden, as the likely first target of what the Pentagon said
would be called Operation Noble Eagle.

Foreign aid workers and civilians fled the capital, Kabul, yesterday and the
ruling Taliban regime there said it had fortified military bases and airfields
in readiness for attacks.

Britons were ordered by the Foreign Office to evacuate border areas of
neighbouring Pakistan.

A statement from bin Laden repeated his denial of involvement in Tuesday's
outrages.

Britain said it would gather its own evidence before judging whether he was
behind the suicide hijackings.

Mr Blair also called for the international community to smash "the whole
machinery of mass terrorism", including its finances.

"This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves," he said.

"We will see this thing through. It will be done," Mr Blair said at10 Downing
Street, in an interview shown around the globe on the US network CNN.

He predicted grimly that the British death toll could rise to between 200 and
300, making Tuesday's suicide hijackings the worst terrorist outrage committed
against the nation.

A sombre Mr Blair was asked whether Britain, too, was now at war.

He replied without hesitation: "Yes. What- ever the technical or legal issues
about a declar- ation of war, the fact is we are at war with terrorism."

Later, speaking outside No 10 as he left with his family to pray in nearby
Westminster Cathedral, he repeated: "Are we at war with the people who have
committed this terrible atrocity? Absolutely.

"And we have to assemble the evidence, present it and then pursue those
responsible."

He added: "This has been an attack on the whole of the civilised world."

Mr Blair said of the British death toll: "Probably 200 to 300 people from
Britain will have died in that terrorist attack.

"That makes it the worst terrorist attack there has been on British citizens
since the Second World War."

Mr Blair said: "There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who
committed this attack to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of international terrorism."

Mr Blair said he would not flinch from supporting military action.

"We have made it clear that we stand side by side with the United States.

"I think there will be very broad support for a response which allows us to
pursue and bring to account those responsible and do it as an act of justice."

But he added: "When we merely offer words of support, that's the easy part in
one sense. The hard part starts when we actually take the action."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              120 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

BLAIR FAMILY ATTENDS SERVICE AT CATHEDRAL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 304 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair and his family yesterday attended a service at
Westminster Cathedral dedicated to the victims of the terror attacks on the
United States.

Mr Blair, his wife Cherie and children Nicky and Kathryn arrived at the
cathedral in Victoria Street, central London at 5.30pm for the hour-long
service.

Moments before the family walked into the building a plain-clothes police
officer entered and glanced around the 400-strong congregation.

Father Michael Seed led prayers dedicated to the US President, the Queen and
leaders around the world.

The chaplain told the congregation in his sermon: "Today, we are mourning the
thousands of lives taken so quickly and violently.

"People ask why in the matter of an hour or more has a tragedy taken place that
cost the lives of thousands of people, working in their ordinary way, taking off
in their planes in an ordinary way.

"We must rise up and show that we are human and be hopeful and give people
hope."

As Mr and Mrs Blair left the building they spoke briefly to the chaplain.

Meanwhile, actress Jerry Hall spoke of the importance of the "special
relationship" between Britain and America during a vigil at Westminster Abbey
for the thousands of victims of the terrorist attacks in the US.

American-born Hall told the packed congregation, which included her ex-husband
Mick Jagger and the US ambassador William Farish, how her daughter Elizabeth
witnessed one of the atrocities in New York.

"She was getting out of a taxi and looked up to see a plane going into the World
Trade Centre."

Hall said the US had stood by Britain while it was blitzed during the war, and
Britain was now standing by the US after the terror attacks.

"That is what the special relationship means. Let us always stand together," she
said.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              121 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: HAND HIM OVER!;
 BUT THE TALIBAN IGNORE PAKISTAN PLEA TO GIVE UP BIN LADEN ULTIMATUM: Pakistan
has asked the Taliban to deliver Osama bin; Laden in a bid to avoid action by
the USA

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 433 words


AFGHANISTAN'S Taliban government today ignored a warning that it must hand over
Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the terror attacks on the US, if it is to
avert 'a humanitarian disaster' in its country.

The meeting, in the southern Afghan city of Kandahar, between Taliban leader
Mullah Mohammed Omar and a top-level delegation from neighbouring Pakistan,
ended without an agreement to give up Bin Laden.

It took place amid heightening tension on both sides of the border, with both
states mobilising troops and thousands of Afghans reported to be fleeing
predicted US retaliation for last week's suicide attacks in New York and
Washington.

Pakistan's foreign minister Abdul Sattar said that he still hoped that the
Taliban would review its decision in time to avert what he predicted would be
'tremendous suffering for Afghanistan'.

But he added: 'There is no room for negotiations. It is time for action.'

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon said he was not surprised that today's mission had
been unsuccessful, as Afghanistan had previously rejected several similar
requests.

Senior Pakistani officials delivered the ultimatum to their neighbour, risking
unrest from hardline Muslims in their own country, in an effort to stave off an
American-led military assault on the region.

US President George Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those
responsible, with Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday promising him Britain's
full support.

United States vice-president Dick Cheney said he had no doubt bin Laden had
helped mastermind Tuesday's kamikaze terror attacks and said he wanted to see
his head 'on a platter'.

Inevitable strikes

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
and 'the whole of the civilised world'. He said he would not flinch from the
military strikes that appear inevitable.

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour and key source for food and fuel, has told
America it will meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and
allow the US air force to use its skies.

Bin Laden has denied he was involved in the attacks but is believed to remain in
hiding in the inaccessible Afghan mountains with his followers.

The warning to the Afghan regime came after more arrests in America of people
the FBI believe are 'material witnesses' in the case.

Two men arrested in Texas were said to be co-operating with police and providing
valuable information about the terrorist network which supported the 19
hijackers before they carried out the attacks. Two other men are also in
custody.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              122 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 17, 2001

PRESSURE GROWS;
 Give up Bin Laden, says Pakistan, as world faces threat of war

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 415 words


PAKISTANI officials were today making an urgent bid to persuade Afghanistan's
ruling Taliban militia to hand over Osama Bin Laden, the prime suspect in last
week's terrorist attacks in the U.S.

The Pakistanis were delivering the ultimatum to their neighbour and risking
unrest from hardline Muslims in their own country in an effort to stave off an
American-led military assault on the region.

British Foreign Secretary Jack Straw praised Pakistan's role in the crisis,
saying: "The relationship with Pakistan is a very long-standing one and a very
strong one.

"There has been contact at every level with the Pakistan government and we are
very grateful to President Musharraf and his colleagues for the stand they are
now taking."

U.S. President George Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those
responsible, with Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday promising him Britain's
full support. Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who
struck at America and "the whole of the civilised world".

He said he would not flinch from the military strikes that appear inevitable but
would "see this thing through".

Mr Bush was pressing forward with preparations to go after Bin Laden. Last night
he warned the American people they faced a long conflict against a shadowy
enemy.

"It is time for us to win the first war of the 21st century decisively, " he
said, as he arrived at the White House after a weekend laying plans for the
campaign with his top advisers.

"The American people should know that my administration is determined to find
them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to America."

And Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the
Taliban. He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to
get rid of this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United
States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's key source for food and fuel, has told America it will
meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and allow the U.S.
air force to use its skies.

And it was telling the Taliban to hand over Bin Laden or face "massive
retaliation".

But Bin Laden has denied he was involved in the attacks and said: "I stress that
I have not carried out this act, which appears to have been carried out by
individuals with their own motivation." He is believed to be staying in hiding
in the inaccessible Afghan mountains with thousands of followers.

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              123 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

'HAND OVER SUSPECT'PLEA TO STOP WAR;
 PAKISTAN LEADERS URGE AFGHANISTAN TO STOP PROTECTING BIN LADEN AS BUSH LAYS
MORE PLANS FOR MILITARY ACTION SCENE OF TRAGEDY: The rubble of the World Trade
Centre continuing to smoulder as the rescue effort goes on

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 568 words


PAKISTAN was today making an urgent bid to persuade Afghanistan's ruling Taliban
militia to hand over Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the terrorist attacks
on America.

Senior Pakistani officials were delivering the ultimatum to their neighbour to
try to stave off an American-led military assault.

US President George Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those
responsible, with Prime Minister Tony Blair promising him Britain's full
support.

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
and "the whole of the civilised world".

He said he would not flinch from the military strikes that appear inevitable but
would "see this thing through".

Meanwhile, New York's financial sector was getting back to work for the first
time since Tuesday's attack on the World Trade Centre in New York and the
Pentagon in Washing-ton by hijacked airliners. The Stock Exchange was opening
again today.

But just yards from where people returned to their offices, the desperate search
for life continued amid the rubble of the collapsed twin towers of the trade
centre, even as officials admitted hope was fading of finding anyone still
alive.

And Mr Bush was pressing forward with preparations to go after bin Laden.

Last night Mr Bush warned the American people they faced a long conflict against
a shadowy enemy.

"It is time for us to win the first war of the 21st century decisively," he
said, as he arrived at the White House after a weekend laying plans for the
campaign with his top advisers.

"The American people should know that my administration is det-ermined to find
them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to America."

And Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the
Taliban.

He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to get rid of
this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour and key source for food and fuel, has told
America it will meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and
allow the US air force to use its skies.

And it was telling the Taliban to hand over bin Laden or face "massive
retaliation" in a country already devastated by 30 years of civil war.

But bin Laden has denied he was involved, and said: "I stress that I have not
carried out this act, which appears to have been carried out by individuals with
their own motivation."

He is believed to remain in hiding in the inaccessible Afghan mountains, with
followers who may number in the thousands.

Yesterday, about 1,000 members of the Sipah-e-Sahab, a Pakistani militant Sunni
group pledged to defend bib laden aty any cost and shouted anti- US slogans in
Peshawar, Pakistan.

The warning to the Afghan regime came after more arrests in America of people
the FBI believe are "material witnesses" in the case.

Two men arrested in Texas were said to be co-operating with police and providing
valuable information about the terrorist network which supported the 19
hijackers before they carried out the attacks on Tuesday.

Two other men are in custody, while an unknown number of people were also in
custody for immigration violations.

In New York, the number of people reported missing fell to 4,957 - after city
officials rechecked lists - with 190 bodies recovered.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              124 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: BIN LADEN ALLY HELD IN LONDON;
 FBI TO GRILL FANATIC MUFTI KHAN OVER TERROR BLITZ ON AMERICA

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 381 words


OSAMA bin Laden's right-hand man was arrested at Heathrow airport two hours
after the New York atrocity.

Mufti Mohammed Khan was on a flight from New York which had taken off before the
terror attacks began.

He was detained by immigration officers, then arrested by police under the
Prevention of Terrorism Act.

He is now being held at a secret location in Britain on behalf of the FBI.

Early this week, he will be escorted back to New York on a military plane by
armed US federal agents.

On arrival, he will be interviewed about last week's attacks on the World Trade
Centre and the Pentagon.

Khan is alleged to be second-in-command of the fanatical Jaish-i-Mohammed (Army
of Mohammed) who are committed to the destruction of Britain and the USA.

Formed less than two years ago, the group claimed responsibility for last
October's attack on the USS Cole in Yemen that killed 17 sailors.

Jaish-i-Mohammed has also been active in Britain, where it has recruited
volunteer fighters.

Abdullah Bai, 24, from Birmingham, was killed when he took part in a suicide
-bombing raid on an Indian barracks in Kashmir.

Mufti Khan's closeness to bin Laden became known in 1998 when the Saudi exile
urged the Pakistani people to back the Taliban in Kabul.

In a public letter to Khan, bin Laden said it was the "religious duty" of every
Moslem to support them.

Earlier this month, Home Secretary David Blunkett passed an order banning Khan
from the UK. He is believed to have been travelling on false documents.

Officially, Scotland Yard would only say they had detained a man in his forties.

But a Yard insider has confirmed the man was Khan.

He is thought to have been entering Britain for talks with other bin Laden
supporters.

Jaish-i-Mohammed has been active in Britain for at least three years, recruiting
young British Moslems to train in terrorist techniques in Pakistan and
Afghanistan.

News of Khan's arrest comes just after the FBI released a list of the 19
kamikaze hijackers they believe were on board the four jet airliners that were
turned into flying bombs in the US on Tuesday.

They included Ziad Jarrah, pictured left, who is belived to have been on board
United Airlines flight 93, which crashed in rural Pennsylvania.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              125 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

British extremists urge young Muslims to fight against US

BYLINE: By Sandra Laville and Gabriel Rozenberg

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 424 words

ISLAMIC extremists in Britain are calling on young Muslims to fight to the death
against America and her allies.

At a meeting of the Al- Muhajiroun organisation in Birmingham at the weekend, a
group of 50 young men and women was encouraged to travel to Afghanistan and give
their lives in the defence of Islam.

"Martyrdom operatives will be rewarded in heaven," one speaker declared.

Others on the platform at the meeting, in the suburb of Sparkbrook, asked: "Who
are the real terrorists?" and called on the audience to oppose any western
reprisals against Osama bin Laden.

Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohamed, the founder of Al-Muhajiroun, has openly courted
controversy in Britain.

He supported the bombings of the United States' embassies in Kenya and Tanzania
in 1998, and said after Tuesday's terror attack: "I am very happy today. As much
as I regret the innocent people who passed away, with the USA you must pay."

Although Al-Muhajiroun is believed to have a membership approaching 1,000,
mainstream British Muslims insist that its hardline views are wholly
unrepresentative.

One speaker at the Sparkbrook meeting accused Americans of widespread butchering
of Muslims from Chechnya to Iraq.

He warned moderate Muslims who had condemned last Tuesday's attack that they,
too, would be the target of "true" Muslims.

"I am a Muslim first and foremost," he said. "We will never be accepted by the
Kufr [the west] so we should not pander to their whims or support their actions
like some so-called Muslims have been doing.

"If they continue to do so, it is our duty to persuade them not to. But if they
do not listen, they are Kufr too and so it is our duty to fight and even kill
them."

Leaflets for the meeting stated: "The final hour will not come until the Muslims
conquer the White House."

In the background was a picture of the Pentagon in flames.

By contrast, moderate British Muslims worshipping at the Central London Mosque
yesterday condemned extremism and the attacks on New York and Washington.

Sultan Pervez, 57, from Hendon, north-west London, called for swift justice
against those responsible.

He said: "A madman has done this, whoever it is, if it is Osama bin Laden we
have to find him and the sooner justice is done the better.

"But it has to be a justified policy, revenge is not the answer."

A woman who asked not to be named, said: "It's a terrible loss of life, we don't
condone that.

"Killing is absolutely against Islam. But it is not right to attack Afghanistan
without proof."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              126 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

Stand together, says Jerry Hall

BYLINE: By Richard Eden

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 287 words

JERRY Hall spoke of the close relationship between Britain and America during a
vigil at Westminster Abbey last night to remember those who died in the
terrorist attacks.

The Texan former wife of Mick Jagger told the packed congregation how her
daughter, Elizabeth, had witnessed the attack on the World Trade Centre while in
New York on a modelling assignment.

She said: "America standing by Britain when it was being blitzed, and Britain
standing by America after the terrorist attacks. That is what the special
relationship means. Let us always stand together."

She then read from Psalm 139: "Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the
night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee."

Long queues formed for the vigil, which was broadcast live in a special edition
of the BBC's Songs of Praise. Mica Paris, the British soul singer, sang Amazing
Grace at the service, which was attended by representatives of Jewish, Muslim
and Buddhist faiths, as well as the American ambassador, William Farish, and his
wife, Sarah.

Nicholas Bailey, an actor, gave a reading from a speech by Martin Luther King,
who he said had once urged people to resist their natural desire for revenge.

Dr Wesley Carr, Dean of Westminster Abbey, spoke of his hopes for peace and
reconciliation.

He said: "Who can know what will unfold? But we can all pray that the aim may be
reconciliation, that the means may be talk, and that the end will be the healing
of relations between people, races, religions and nations."

The Prime Minister and his family attended a Catholic service, also dedicated to
the victims of the attacks, at nearby Westminster Cathedral.
[PS]News: [ES]

America at war:

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              127 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

Roberts for England

BYLINE: By Claire Middleton

SECTION: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 266 words

KATY ROBERTS, the Chelmsford goalkeeper, was yesterday confirmed in the England
squad for the World Cup qualifying tournament after Hilary Rose was unable to
leave America in time to join the team.

The event, which is being held at two venues in France - Amiens and Abbeville -
starts today with England playing the hosts. Rose, the Great Britain No 1 who
coaches at the University of Massachusetts, had been due to fly out of Boston on
Tuesday night, which obviously became impossible following the terrorist
attacks.

The United States team also pulled out yesterday, making the event a 14-team
tournament (Kenya having already withdrawn), from which seven sides will qualify
for the World Cup proper, in Perth, Australia, next year.

Because of the circumstances, however, the International Hockey Federation told
team managers that whoever finishes in the last qualifying slot will be asked to
play a best-of-three, winner-takes-all series against the Americans.

England will hope to avoid any of that by finishing in the top two of their pool
and avoiding all the nailbiting play-offs.

Scotland and Ireland are also both hopeful of making the World Cup proper, with
Ireland in England's section and the Scots in the other group. Canada, India and
Russia will also expect to be in the hunt.

WORLD CUP QUALIFYING T'MENT (Amiens, France).- Pool A: England, France, India,
Ireland, Kazakstan, Ukraine, Uruguay. Pool B: Belgium, Canada, Japan, Lithuania,
Malaysia, Russia, Scotland. Today: India v Uruguay, Ukraine v Kazakstan, France
v England.
[PS]Sport: [ES]

Men's Hockey:

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              128 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

A religion that sanctions violence Glossing over the realities of Islam will
help no one, argues Patrick Sookhdeo

BYLINE: By Patrick Sookhdeo

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 820 words

Until recently, Islam has had a negative and violent image in the West, but now
the trend is to focus on Islam as a religion of peace. Since the World Trade
Centre attack, there has been a flood of statements and articles making these
assertions. A recent BBC2 series formed part of this trend, as did John Casey's
article in praise of Islam in this newspaper. These sentiments were echoed by
Tony Blair: last week he said that "such acts of infamy and cruelty are wholly
contrary to the Islamic faith".

We are often told that the word Islam means "peace". We seem to have gone from
one extreme to the other. Now that Islam is no longer demonised, it seems it can
do no wrong. Perhaps the truth is that the two opposing strands need to be held
together, instead of dismissing one or the other. The reality of Islam is more
complex. Islam actually means "submission" - not quite the same as "peace". Many
horrific acts have been, and continue to be, perpetrated in the name of Islam,
just as they have in the name of Christianity. But, unlike Islam, Christianity
does not justify the use of all forms of violence. Islam does.

There have been reports that Muslims fear revenge attacks. In America and
Britain, there have been stories of intimidation. Attacks on Muslims and on
peace can never be justified, but the answer is not to forfeit justice or to
ignore truth.

The contradictory reactions to the terrorist attacks - official condemnation at
leadership level and support among many people - are an indication that Islam is
not always "a religion of peace". There are so many Muslims rejoicing at the
tragic loss of American lives and the humiliation of the American government
that they cannot be dismissed as "a few extremists".

Sura 9, verse 5 of the Koran reads, "Then fight and slay the Pagans wherever ye
find them. And seize them, beleaguer them, And lie in wait for them, In every
stratagem (of war)." The note that accompanies this verse in the respected A
Yusuf Ali translation states that "when war becomes inevitable it must be
pursued with vigour The fighting may take the form of slaughter, or capture, or
siege, or ambush and other stratagems."

In the Muslim faith, the Koran is believed to be the very word of God, applying
to all people, in all times, in all places. It is the source of the Muslim faith
and the law that orders the Islamic way of life. Killing is not totally
forbidden: in fact, it was through conquest that Islam spread. In Indonesia
today, non-Muslims are offered a choice of conversion to Islam or death. The
argument that the above verse was written to refer only to a particular time and
people is not valid. The Koran is considered immutable - a fact that has been
repeatedly employed to justify verses that are discriminatory toward women, such
as the unequal inheritance shares given to women in line with Sura 4, verse 11.

The development of Shariah, Islamic law, created a society where non-Muslims
lived as second-class citizens subject to and humiliated by numerous laws. Those
who converted from Islam to another religion were killed, a practice that
continues in Afghanistan, Iran and Saudi Arabia. Koran Sura 5, verse 85, which
speaks of enmity between Muslims and non-Muslims, reads: "Strongest among men in
enmity to the Believers wilt thou Find the Jews and Pagans."

The World Trade Centre attack cannot be dismissed as merely the work of a small
group of extremists. The Muslims celebrating the tragedy in America are
doubtless recalling the words of the Koran, urging Muslims to "fight a mighty
nation, fight them until they embrace Islam". Sheikh Omar Bakri Mohamed, leader
of the radical Islamic organisation Al-Muhajiroun, last week indicated that
civilian targets were wrong, but military and government targets are legitimate.
The Kuwaiti paper Al-Watan argued in favour of the Islamic justification for
killing non-combatants. It referred specifically to Jews, but its argument could
apply to any non-combatants living in a democracy. Citizens vote for the
government and pay taxes to support it. And so, the argument goes, citizens can
be considered as potential soldiers or as being "involved in complementary
activities".

To recognise that no culture or people are without fault and that all should be
subject to criticism is not racism; it is an honesty that emphasises our common
humanity. The way to increase respect between people of different faiths is not
to gloss over our problems but to admit them, face up to them and together seek
to deal with them. Violence occurs in all religions, but in most it is not
sanctioned and although there might be moderate elements within Islam, it is the
extremist elements that have tended to dominate the development of the religion,
with often tragic consequences.

Patrick Sookhdeo is the director of the Institute for the Study of Islam and
Christianity
[PS]Features: [ES]

Comment:

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              129 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WE ARE AT WAR WITH TERRORISM;
 BLAIR'S HARD LINE OVER ATTACKS

BYLINE: Paul Gilfeather

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 737 words


TONY Blair admitted for the first time yesterday: "We are at war with
terrorism."

The Prime Minister made the announcement in a special TV interview, beamed into
the homes of millions of Americans.

It was a clear signal that our military would become directly involved in any
conflict.

Blair had deliberately avoided using the word "war" following Tuesday's outrage.

But talking to US television network CNN from Downing Street, he moved up a gear
as Britain prepared to play a full part in America's response.

He said: "Whatever the technical or legal issues about a declaration of war, the
fact is we are at war with terrorism.

"It is a war between the civilised world and fanaticism.

"These are people who will stop at nothing, so however much we regret the fact
that we have to take this action, nonetheless we have to do so.

"This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will see this thing through.
It will be done."

He raised the stakes for British involvement after President Bush ordered
American troops to "get ready" to hit back at those behind the World Trade
Centre and Pentagon attacks.

The Prime Minister stressed that terrorists like Osama bin Laden would be hunted
down by a new world order - a ground-breaking coalition of civilised countries.

Pakistan has already given the green light for its air space to be used by
Allied jets against Afghanistan where bin Laden is believed to be sheltering.

And Blair said his ministers were working round the clock with America to form
the new global alliance.

The PM said: "We have made it clear that we stand side-by-side with the United
States."

Asked about the evidence needed to pinpoint those responsible, he said it was
fairly clear. But Blair added: "I think it's important that we consider the
evidence in a very careful way - that we are hard-headed about it.

"I have spoken to Arab leaders in the past few days who have expressed their
outrage that this has happened, their determination that this is something that
Islam should be seen as standing against.

"I do think that the whole of the civilised world will stand together.

"There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who committed this attack
to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of inter-national terrorism."

Yesterday, defence supremo Geoff Hoon was asked if Britain would join US
fighters in air strikes against Afghanistan if the country's Taliban regime did
not surrender the Saudi terror godfather.

Talking on Radio 4, he would not comment directly on the point, but said: "The
Ministry of Defence is preparing the kind of options which allows us to stand
shoulder to shoulder with the Americans."

Blair, who spent the weekend at No 10 in talks with senior ministers, military
and intelligence chiefs, admitted world leaders had not done enough to tackle
the threat from global terrorism. He said: "For a long period of time the world
has turned a blind eye, been somewhat indifferent, to the menace of
international terrorism."

He stressed even though it was in Britain and the civilised world's nature to
"proceed very carefully", he insisted: "When the conflict comes we have to be
prepared to face up to it."

And he hinted that Britain and other Western nations could become more like Big
Brother states as new security measures were introduced to deal with the threat.

Civil rights, once taken for granted, could be overhauled as Britain attempts to
protect itself from terrorism.

Identity cards and more spy cameras could emerge in the aftermath of the
catastrophe.

Asked about increased domestic security measures, Blair replied: "I think there
are a whole series of things people will look at.

"This is the time to set an objective then to consider very carefully how we
meet that objective."

Blair used yesterday's broadcast to remind Americans t Britain had also suffered
huge losses.

As the death toll topped 5000, he said the two countries were united in grief.

Blair said: "What happened on Tuesday was an attack not just on the United
States, but an attack on the civilised world.

"Probably 200-300 people from Britain will have died.

"That makes it the worst terrorist attack there has been on British citizens
since the Second World War."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              130 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 17, 2001

Straw says UK intelligence sources confirm Bin Laden role;
Terror War: Preparing for Action Terrorism USA

BYLINE: Charles Reiss;Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 700 words


THE Government today launched a deliberate operation to build a platform for
Britain to join the US in military action against the terrorist organisation of
Osama bin Laden.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, breaking the rule that ministers do not talk about
intelligence matters, declared that Britain now has independent evidence naming
Bin Laden as "prime suspect" for last week's atrocities in the US.

"One thing is now clear," said Mr Straw, "and I say this is now clear not only
from what has been said in the United States but from our own, separate
intelligence assessment, and that is that Osama bin Laden and his organisation
are plainly the prime suspects for this terrorist outrage.

"That assessment underlies the judgments we will be making in the days and weeks
ahead."

Neither Mr Straw nor his officials would indicate when those judgments might be
transformed into action.

Nor would they give any detail as to the strength of the information from the
intelligence services.

But Whitehall swiftly made clear that the message was that action, whenever it
came, would be based, in the words of one source, on Britain's "independent and
sovereign" assessment of a legitimate target.

The worldwide hunt for the terrorists who attacked New York and Washington
intensified today with the arrest of four potentially crucial witnesses.

The US Justice Department did not name the four men who have been held as
"material witnesses" people with direct information about the incident - but one
is known to be a Middle Eastern man detained at John F Kennedy airport on Friday
with a fake Federal Aviation Authority pilot's licence. US investigators say
they are finding significant links between the hijackers and Bin Laden's far
flung enterprise.

Tony Blair, meeting the Government's key diplomatic and military advisers today,
was preparing for talks with a series of his fellow European leaders in the
continuing effort to maintain the Western alliance in face of the crisis.

The Prime Minister was meeting his Italian counterpart, Silvio Berlusconi, for
lunch today. On Wednesday he is scheduled to meet Germany's-chancellor, Gerhard
Schroder. The continued diplomatic offensive followed Mr Blair's strongest
warning yet that the democracies of the world are now in a state of "war"
against terrorists who attacked America.

"Are we at war with the people who have committed this terrible atrocity?

Absolutely," the Prime Minister said. "We have to assemble the evidence, present
it and then pursue those responsible."

It was the first time Mr Blair, who was speaking in Downing Street yesterday
before taking his family to Westminster Cathedral, has spoken in terms of war.

Later he said he believed support from Europe was solid and that "the whole of
the civilised world will stand together".

President Jacques Chirac of France, who will visit Washington tomorrow for talks
with President Bush, is expected to reinforce that message. But some, at home
and abroad, struck a note of caution.

One Cabinet member, International Development Secretary Clare Short, said the
fact that many innocent people had lost their lives in last Tuesday's attacks
was "intolerable". But, raising the possibility of widespread attacks on
Afghanistan or other terrorist havens, she went on: "It would be unbearable if
the response was a lot more innocent people losing their lives and inflaming the
atmosphere."

Mr Blair himself stressed that America and its allies would act in a calm,
measured and sensible way - "but act we must".

The impact on this country, with between 200 and 300 Britons among the dead in
last week's attacks, constituted "the worst terrorist attack there has been on
British citizens since the Second World War," he said.

Mr Straw, meanwhile, announced aid for the relatives of the British victims.

Two close relatives of each Briton killed will be flown to New York at
government expense, and other help, including payment for accommodation, will
also be available.

The Foreign Office is expected in the next day or two to release the first
official list of Britons missing following last week's atrocities.


LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: A NATIONAL GUARD WEARS AN AIR FILTER AS HE WORKS IN THE RUBBLE OF THE
WORLD TRADE CENTER. AN AIR QUALITY EXPERT HAS DESCRIBED THE LEVEL OF DUST IN THE
AREA AS "STAGGERING"; LEFT, MEMBERS OF AN EXTREME PAKISTANI MUSLIM GROUP HOLD AN
ANTI-AMERICAN RALLY IN RAWALPINDI, 25KM FROM ISLAMABAD. PAKISTANI DELEGATES ARE
TODAY TRYING TO PERSUADE THE TALIBAN TO HAND OVER OSAMA BIN LADEN, BUT
EXTREMISTS HAVE WARNED THEY WOULD VIEW US MILITARY ATTACKS ON THE TALIBAN AS AN
ATTACK ON THEM

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              131 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                      September 17, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Torrance Supports Ryder Decision

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: SPORT, Pg. 44

LENGTH: 435 words


   Sam Torrance has supported the decision to postpone next week's Ryder Cup for
12 months.

A match which until a week ago had all the makings of being the highlight of the
sporting year in Britain was called off last night in the wake of the terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington.

But, instead of a straight cancellation, officials have decided the event will
go ahead at The Belfry next September, with the same two captains and the same
24 players. The exact date has yet to be announced.

The knock-on effects of the postponement - primarily the tickets, hotel rooms
and travel plans of the thousands of fans and worldwide media - were being
addressed on both sides of the Atlantic today. But Torrance's thoughts remain
primarily on the victims of the tragedy.

"The decision to postpone is one of common-sense," he said. "What happened in
America last week has put the Ryder Cup and everything else into perspective.

"I am desperately heartbroken for all the people involved in this terrible
tragedy.

"All I can feel at the moment is an immense sadness.

"There will be time enough to talk further about the 34th Ryder Cup match taking
place next year."

The 48-year-old Scot had expected to be resigning as Europe's captain in a
fortnight's time - after, he hoped, he had won the trophy back.

But now, along with Curtis Strange, he finds himself in the job for another
year.

Strange has expressed the same sentiments about the reasons behind the
postponement.

"The tragedy has caused us all to reflect and evaluate our own lives and
relationship with family and friends," he commented. "Our hearts and prayers go
out to those affected by last Tuesday's disaster."

According to Swede Pierre Fulke, every European player was apparently ready and
willing to gather at The Belfry next week.

But not one of them is disagreeing with the 12-month postponement.

Fulke, one of seven uncapped players on the two sides relieved that they will
still have the chance to appear in the match, said: "Everybody's gut feeling
after Tuesday was that the Ryder Cup would be in danger."

The vast majority of the two teams were in or on their way to St Louis for a
world championship event when the atrocities happened.

That was subsequently cancelled, with the prize money being donated to the
disaster relief fund.

Most of the Europeans got home only at the weekend because of the ban on flights
and Fulke added: "We talked about it coming over from America.

"All the European team agreed that we wanted to go ahead, but the decision has
basically been made by the United States team."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              132 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 17, 2001

Prayers for the victims of attack

BYLINE: MARY O'LEARY

SECTION: NEWS: CONSUMER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 353 words


PRAYERS were said at churches across Plymouth yesterday for those caught up in
the devastating terrorist attacks on the USA.

Services held all over the city on Sunday morning included moments of silence in
honour of the thousands of victims killed in the attacks on New York and
Washington, as well as special hymns and prayer sessions.

The horror of Tuesday's horrific events has touched everyone, and the need to
remember the dead and pray for their families swept across churches of all
denominations and people of all faiths.

At St Andrew's Church in the city centre, churchgoers observed a minute's
silence in memory of the dead and said prayers for their families.

Many also signed a book of condolence. The 9.30am morning service was followed
by a pre-arranged Battle of Britain service.

The Rev Nick McKinnel said: "This service had a very different feel to it this
year as a result."

At Mutley Baptist Methodist Church, in Mutley Plain, a time was set aside for
people to share thoughts and prayers and observe a moment of silence. The
congregation also sang God Our Help in Ages Past in honour of those involved in
the tragedy.

The Rev Ian Coffey and his wife Ruth said they noticed slightly more people at
the service than usual.

Mrs Coffey said: "It is difficult to say but there seemed to be a few more
people than normal."

At St Judes Church, vicar the Rev Stephen Dinsmore used an overhead screen to
project memorable quotes from leading figures like President Bush and some of
the survivors to help churchgoers focus on prayers said during a special
session.

And at St Simon's Church, in Mount Gould, Father Roger Beck led the congregation
in a time of remembrance of the lives lost.

Father Beck said: "I think there were prayers said at every church in Plymouth
today, it would be impossible to do otherwise. We included all those caught up
in the act of terrorism in our prayers, as well as the emergency services
working to help them."

IN WRITING: Pam Luxon signs the book of condolence at St Andrew's Church. It
will be sent to the US embassy Picture Guy Channing EM70329

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              133 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 17, 2001

AGENCY: PA

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.3

LENGTH: 285 words


Police work with FBI UK: Scotland Yard was today working with the FBI to hunt
suspected British-based accomplices of the terrorists. The nationwide operation
saw officers raid an address in Brixton, south London, on Saturday, at the
request of the FBI, but no arrests were made. Flights resume UK: Britain's major
airports were expected to be operating an almost normal service today after
airline staff spent the weekend battling a backlog of stranded passengers.
Gatwick saw about 10,500 travellers depart for the US yesterday and estimated
the situation would be back to normal in the next few days. Heathrow expected to
return to its usual schedule tomorrow. Airline job fears PLYMOUTH: Fears were
today mounting that thousands of jobs could be lost in the British air industry
in the wake of last week's terrorist attacks in the US. American carrier
Continental Airways has already cut flight schedules by a fifth and given 12,000
staff a leave of absence because of the expected slump in air travel following
the hijackings. Record plans NEW YORK: Pop stars including Michael Jackson and
Britney Spears plan to record a song to raise millions for the survivors and
families of those killed in Tuesday's terrorist attacks. Others committed to
project include Destiny's Child, Justin Timberlake, of 'N Sync, and Nick Carter,
of the Backstreet Boys.An Anti-Terrorist Hotline has been set up on 0800 789
321.

Meanwhile, a small group of British police have arrived in New York to help the
FBI and US police identify British victims of the tragedy and provide initial
support to families and friends.

And concern is growing that British Airways could axe up to 6,000 of its 62,000
global staff.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              134 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 17, 2001

Britain 'to join military action'

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.5

LENGTH: 777 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair has declared: "We are at war with terrorism" - and
told the world Britain will play its full part in military strikes against those
responsible for the attacks on America.

His tough stance came as Pakistan today shut its border with Afghanistan and
made an urgent bid to persuade the country's ruling Taliban militia to hand over
Osama Bin Laden, the prime suspect in last week's terrorist attacks in the US.

In an interview shown around the globe, Mr Blair pledged from the Cabinet Room
at 10 Downing Street: "This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will
see this thing through. It will be done."

He predicted grimly that the British death toll could rise to between 200 and
300, making Tuesday's suicide hijackings the worst terrorist outrage committed
against the nation.

As tension increased around Afghanistan, Britons were ordered by the Foreign
Office to leave parts of neighbouring Pakistan immediately.

Britain refused to accept a denial from Bin Laden that he was involved in the
strikes on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon.

This morning Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said British intelligence had
established that Bin Laden and his organisation were the 'prime suspects' in the
US terror attack.

"That assessment underlies the judgments we will be making in the days and weeks
ahead," he said.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell said America had to be prepared for further
attacks, which could even involve 'chemical, biological or radiological'
threats.

Security was increased even further around President Bush amid fears of further
strikes, as the confirmed death toll from Tuesday's attacks crept above 4,900
and continued to climb.

Mr Blair's staunch backing for military strikes was delivered in an interview
for the American CNN network.

A sombre Mr Blair was asked whether Britain, too, was now at war. He replied
without hesitation: "Yes. Whatever the technical or legal issues about a
declaration of war, the fact is we are at war with terrorism."

"What happened on Tuesday was an attack not just on the United States, but on
the civilised world. There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who
committed this attack to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of international terrorism."

The Prime Minister said he would not flinch from supporting military action: "We
have made it clear that we stand side by side with the United States.

"The US is in close consultation with us and with other allies and I think there
will be very broad support for a response which allows us to pursue and bring to
account those responsible and do it as an act of justice".

But he added: "It's right that when we merely offer words of support, that's the
easy part in one sense. The hard part starts when we actually take the action,
but I think that support will be there."

Mr Blair said: "These are people who will stop at nothing, so however much we
regret the fact that we have to take this action, nonetheless we have to do so."

But he said it was 'too premature' to talk of what the specific military
response would be.

Mr Blair's steely rhetoric came after spending the weekend at No 10 in talks
with senior ministers, military and intelligence chiefs and in phone
conversations with other leaders.

He spoke to French President Jacques Chirac and has spoken over the last few
days to Arab leaders as well as other European colleagues and Russian President
Vladimir Putin.

The Prime Minister refused to speculate on how domestic security measures may be
tightened, including the possibility of the introduction of compulsory identity
cards.

Mr Bush warned the American people they faced a long conflict against a shadowy
enemy.

He said: "The American people should know that my administration is determined
to find them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to
America."

And Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the
Taliban.

He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to get rid of
this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour has told America it will meet its demands to
allow the US air force to use its skies.

It moved to comply with another of those demands today, sealing its border,
stopping all trade to Afghanistan and sending more police to its northwest
frontier province to implement a new order confining 1.2 million Afghan refugees
to the dozens of camps scattered throughout the province.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              135 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 17, 2001

Attack on America: Blair's latest response: This is war and we must act, says
PM: 'Terrorists must be brought to account, and Britain will play its full part'

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 567 words


Tony Blair yesterday declared for the first time that Britain was at war with
terrorism, adding it was "pretty clear" that Osama bin Laden's terrorist network
was behind last Tuesday's outrage.

Until now Mr Blair has avoided describing any future military campaign as a war,
even though the word has been deployed by President Bush.

Speaking briefly outside 10 Downing Street, he promised the government would act
in a measured and calm way, but insisted: "Act we must".

He also revealed that the government now reckoned between 200 and 300 British
people had been killed in the attack, slightly lower than previously predicted.

He described it as the worst terrorist attack on British citizens since the
second world war, adding that British interests were intimately engaged in the
pursuit of the terrorists.

Earlier he told the American CNN network: "Whatever the technical or legal
issues about a declaration of war, the fact of the matter is that we are at war
with terrorism.

"There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who committed this attack
to account, and we will play our full part in that".

Downing Street also rejected reports that the European alliance was fracturing
over the appropriate military response. Mr Blair spoke to the French president,
Jacques Chirac, on Saturday, convinced the French steadfastly supported military
action.

Mr Blair expects Mr Chirac to underline the point when he flies to Washington
tomorrow for a prearranged visit.

Mr Blair insisted he had enjoyed the closest level of consultation with the US
on any future action.

The defence secretary, Geoff Hoon, also said Britain was working up options to
pursue the terrorist network, and yesterday won the backing of the new Tory
leader Iain Duncan Smith for the use of British ground troops.

In practice, British sources said the use of conventional forces was unlikely
and much still depended on the intelligence information received.

The British are impressing on the US that the potential for a powerful coalition
against terrorism will be endangered if the US response is wildly
disproportionate.

The prime minister again stressed there were two elements - "the more immediate
action to bring to account those responsible, and then over time the systematic
war against the whole machinery of terrorism".

Mr Blair praised Mr Bush, saying: "He has been very calm and measured in the way
he has approached it. Obviously America has got to defend itself against such an
attack, but it has been done in a way that reflects very great credit on the
administration."

He described the conflict as not between Christianity and Islam, but between
civilised values and fanaticism. He added: "These are people who will stop at
nothing. This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will see this thing
through. It will be done."

Mr Blair has been using his influence in the Middle East and the Indian
continent to build support for military action.

Asked about increased domestic security measures, including the prospect of ID
cards, Mr Blair replied: "I think there are a whole series of things people will
look at."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy yesterday voiced his concerns, saying:
"We have got to have a measured response."

He added: "It must not be some kind of blanket bombing - this is not a Hanoi
situation."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 17, 2001

BRITAIN BACKS BID TO SEIZE BIN LADEN

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 443 words




BRITAIN today backed Pakistan's dramatic bid to persuade Afghanistan to hand
over terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden.  Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said
the government was grateful to Pakistan, as the country ceased trade with the
Taliban and closed its borders with Afghanistan.  Meanwhile, a delegation of top
Pakistani officials was in the heart of the Taliban's territory today to try to
ensure bin Laden's extradition to the US.

Mr Straw revealed today that British intelligence agencies have established
independently that bin Laden is the prime suspect'' in the US terror attacks.

And as the countdown began towards America's fightback, he refused to comment on
reports that US President George Bush has given Afghanistan three days to hand
over bin Laden - or face a massive military assault.  But he added: This is the
most worrying situation I can remember since the Cuban missile crisis in the
1960s.  For younger people it is the most serious and frightening situation to
occur.

The loss of any innocent life is unbearable, which is why people have been so
profoundly shocked at the loss of over 5,000 innocent lives in the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon.  I know people are worried. But the simple truth, which
is unbearable but true, is that we face, in individuals like Osama bin Laden and
the organisation he has, people who do not subscribe to even the most basic
moral tenets that the rest of us subscribe to.'' Over the weekend the
International Development Secretary Clare Short accepted that there had to be
very serious international action.  But it would be unbearable if the response
was a lot more innocent people losing their lives and inflaming the
atmosphere,'' she said.

As New York's stock exchange prepared to return to work, senior Pakistani
officials were delivering the ultimatum to their neighbour, Afghanistan, and
risking unrest from hardline Muslims in their own country, in an effort to stave
off an American-led military assault on the region.  US President George Bush
has promised to hunt down and destroy those responsible, with Prime Minister
Tony Blair yesterday promising him Britain's full support.

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
and the whole of the civilised world.  He said he would not flinch from the
military strikes that appear inevitable.

In Britain, Scotland Yard is working with the FBI to hunt suspected British
based accomplices of the terrorists who attacked the US last week.  Anti-
terrorist police are spearheading a nationwide operation to Turn to page 2





LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              137 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               September 17, 2001

Short in military strikes warning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 128 words



CLARE Short today urged caution in any military action against Afghanistan
following terrorist attacks on the US.

The International Development Secretary said it would be unbearable'' if a
military response led to innocent civilians being killed in a country which has
suffered droughts and 20 years of war.  The warning came after Tony Blair said
that Britain, like the US, was at war'' with the terrorists.

Ms Short acknowledged the need for very serious international action'' following
the attacks but stressed that any military strikes must not further stoke up
problems.  She said: It would be unbearable if the response was a lot more
innocent people losing their lives and inflaming the atmosphere.''

Postbag Debate: P22


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SHORT . . . caution urged

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              138 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                               September 17, 2001

Hand over bin Laden - plea

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:Foreign, Pg.8

LENGTH: 479 words


PAKISTAN was today making an urgent bid to persuade Afghanistan's ruling Taliban
militia to hand over Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in last week's terrorist
attacks in the US.

Senior Pakistani officials were delivering the ultimatum to their neighbour, and
risking unrest from hardline Muslims in their own country, in an effort to stave
off an American-led military assault on the region.

US President George Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those
responsible, with Prime Minister Tony Blair promising him Britain's full
support.

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
'and the whole of the civilised world'.

He said he would not flinch from the military strikes that appear inevitable but
would see this thing through.

Meanwhile, New York's financial sector was getting back to work for the first
time since Tuesday's attack on the World Trade Center in New York and the
Pentagon in Washington by hijacked airliners.

But just yards from where people returned to their offices, the desperate search
for life continued amid the rubble of the collapsed twin towers of the trade
centre, even as officials admitted hope was fading of finding anyone still
alive.

And Mr Bush was pressing forward with preparations to go after bin Laden.

Last night Mr Bush warned the American people they faced a long conflict against
a shadowy enemy.

"It is time for us to win the first war of the 21st century decisively," he
said, as he arrived at the White House after a weekend laying plans for the
campaign with his top advisers.

"The American people should know that my administration is determined to find
them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to America.

"I want to remind the America people that the prime suspect's organisation is in
lots of countries. This will be a long campaign, a determined campaign, a
campaign that we will use the resources of the United States to win." And
Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the Taliban.

He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to get rid of
this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour and key source for food and fuel, has told
America it will meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and
allow the US air force to use its skies.

And it was telling the Taliban to hand over bin Laden or face massive
retaliation in a country already devastated by 30 years of civil war.

But bin Laden has denied he was involved in the attacks and said: "I stress that
I have not carried out this act, which appears to have been carried out by
individuals with their own motivation."

He is believed to remain in hiding in the inaccessible Afghan mountains, with
followers who may number in the thousands.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              139 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

PRESSURE MOUNTS ON TALIBAN TO HAND OVER BIN LADEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 475 words


PAKISTAN was today making an urgent bid to persuade Afghanistan's ruling Taliban
militia to hand over Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in last week's terrorist
attacks in the US.

As New York's stock exchange prepared to return to work, senior Pakistani
officials were delivering the ultimatum to their neighbour, and risking unrest
from hardline Muslims in their own country, in an effort to stave off an
American-led military assault on the region.

US President George Bush has promised to hunt down and destroy those
responsible, with Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday promising him Britain's
full support.

Mr Blair said Britain was now at war with the terrorists who struck at America
and "the whole of the civilised world". He said he would not flinch from the
military strikes that appear inevitable but would "see this thing through".

Meanwhile, New York's financial sector was getting back to work for the first
time since Tuesday's attack on the World Trade Centre in New York and the
Pentagon in Washington by hijacked airliners.

But just yards from where people returned to their offices, the desperate search
for life continued amid the rubble of the collapsed twin towers of the trade
centre, even as officials admitted hope was fading of finding anyone still
alive.

And Mr Bush was pressing forward with preparations to go after bin Laden.

Last night Mr Bush warned the American people they faced a long conflict against
a shadowy enemy.

"It is time for us to win the first war of the 21st century decisively, " he
said, as he arrived at the White House after a weekend laying plans for the
campaign with his top advisers.

"The American people should know that my administration is determined to find
them, to get them running, and to hunt down those who did this to America.

"I want to remind the America people that the prime suspect's organisation is in
lots of countries. This will be a long campaign, a determined campaign, a
campaign that will use the resources of the United States to win."

And Secretary of State Colin Powell issued the strongest warning yet to the
Taliban.

He said: "They will have to make their choice - whether they want to get rid of
this curse within their country or face the full wrath of the United States."

Pakistan, Afghanistan's neighbour and key source for food and fuel, has told
America it will meet its demands to close the border, cut off fuel supplies and
allow the US air force to use its skies.

And it was telling the Taliban to hand over bin Laden or face "massive
retaliation" in a country already devastated by 30 years of civil war.

But bin Laden has denied he was involved in the attacks and said: "I stress that
I have not carried out this act, which appears to have been carried out by
individuals with their own motivation."

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PRIME SUSPECT: Osama bin Laden.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              140 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                               September 17, 2001

City Muslims offer prayer for victims.

BYLINE: Charles Heslett (author email charles.heslett@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 480 words

DATELINE: Bingley,Bradford,Shipley,Spen Valley



The scene in the UK Islamic Mission reflected the reaction of thousands of
Muslims across Bradford to the terrorist attacks in America.

Just two hours after a midday memorial service was held at St Paul's Cathedral
in London, worshippers gathered at the Mosque in Barkerend, pictured, for the
week's most important prayers.

But there was an added gravitas in their offerings to Allah as they knelt down
in the direction of Mecca. Elders asked those gathered to offer an additional
prayer, or Dua, in memory of the victims who perished in the world's worst
terrorist attack just four days ago in America.

And as MPs converged on the capital for the reconvening of Parliament, Muslims
across Bradford united in their condemnation of the worst atrocity to hit the
United States since Pearl Harbour more than 50 years ago. One worshipper, Atta
Mohammed Amber, who is a member of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain, said:
"We condemn this action and our hearts go out to those who have died and their
families. We are with them 100 per cent and share their grief. Nobody can
endorse this evil."

Amjid Khan, another worshipper, said: "I don't think any Muslim, indeed
human-being, would condone this attack. It's the scale of it which has moved
everybody.

"But most Muslims feel there is a double standard in this country when it comes
to Islam. The reaction from the national media was the same with the Oklahoma
bombings but it turned out to be an American who was responsible. There isn't
100 per cent proof about who is responsible, and until there is people should be
careful about pointing the finger."

Imam (Religious leader) Barkat Ali said many Muslims, including himself, had
stopped work at 11am to honour the three minutes silence in memory of those who
perished. He said: "It is something which has touched every community and
everyone wants the perpetrators to be brought to justice."

But Rashid Awan, president of the Pakistan Society of West Yorkshire, said it
was important that the Muslim community was not made a scapegoat for people's
anger over the outrage.

He said: "In Islam there is no justification whatsoever for taking somebody's
life. In the Koran if you kill just one innocent person, you kill humanity. But
the Muslim community needs to be assured it will not be victimised if the
perpetrators of this heinous crime claim allegiance to the Muslim religion.
There are extremist movements in every community and they should be condemned."

At an emergency meeting of the Pakistan Society Bradford, executive committee,
members unanimously passed the resolution that the group: "totally condemns the
terrorist attacks on America and offers prayes for the victims and their
families. These are acts of cowardice and do not serve any purpose whatsoever
and the perpetrators should be brought to justice."


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              141 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

BLAIR PLEDGES BRITAIN TO 'WAR WITH TERRORISM'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 506 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair yesterday declared, "We are at war with terrorism". He
told the world Britain would play its full part in military strikes against
those responsible for the attacks on America.

"This is a time for a calm head and cool nerves. We will see this thing through.
It will be done, " Mr Blair vowed from the Cabinet Room at 10 Downing Street, in
an interview shown around the globe.

He predicted the British death toll could rise to between 200 and 300, making
Tuesday's suicide hijackings the worst terrorist outrage committed against the
nation.

Mr Blair's staunch backing for military strikes was delivered in an interview
for the American CNN network. He was asked whether Britain, too, was now at war.

He replied, without hesitation, "Yes. Whatever the technical or legal issues
about a declaration of war, the fact is we are at war with terrorism.

"What happened on Tuesday was an attack not just on the United States, but an
attack on the civilised world."

He confirmed the British death toll would be the highest in any terrorist attack
, warning, "Probably 200 to 300 people from Britain will have died in that
terrorist attack. That makes it the worst terrorist attack there has been on
British citizens since the Second World War.

"There has to be a response to bring those terrorists who committed this attack
to account and we will play our full part in that.

"Secondly, there has to be an agenda we construct at an international level to
dismantle the machinery of international terrorism."

The Prime Minister said he would not flinch from supporting military action. "We
have made it clear that we stand side by side with the United States.

"The US is in close consultation with us and with other allies and I think there
will be very broad support for a response which allows us to pursue and bring to
account those responsible and do it as an act of justice.

"It's right that when we merely offer words of support, that's the easy part in
one sense. The hard part starts when we actually take the action, but I think
that support will be there.

"These are people who will stop at nothing, so however much we regret the fact
that we have to take this action, nonetheless we have to do so."

But it was "too premature" to talk of specific military response.

Later, Mr Blair left Downing Street with his wife Cherie, daughter Kathryn and
son Nicky to attend their regular Sunday evening mass.

World leaders talk on phone

MR Blair's steely rhetoric came after spending the weekend at No 10 in talks
with senior ministers, military and intelligence chiefs and in phone
conversations with other leaders.

He spoke to French President Jacques Chirac and has spoken to Arab leaders as
well as other European colleagues and Russian President Vladimir Putin.

No details of the talks were disclosed by No 10. The Prime Minister refused to
speculate on how domestic security may be tightened, including the possibility
of compulsory identity cards.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WAR TALK: Prime Minister Tony Blair talks to the Press in Downing;
Street yesterday

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              142 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

EMBASSY LISTING THE BRITISH DEAD;
 USA TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 125 words


BRITAIN'S ambassador to Washington, Sir Christopher Meyer, has described how his
staff have begun "the heartbreaking task" of listing the UK dead murdered in the
terrorist attacks in America.

He said embassy officials have been working round the clock to comfort those who
fear loved ones are missing and to help British citizens left stranded by the
attacks.

The ambassador, writing in the News of the World, says, "Since the first shock
and grief on Tuesday morning . . . we have worked round the clock. We are
talking to British families whose loved ones are missing in New York. We are
helping British survivors pay for medical treatment and looking after people who
are stranded without passports and money and can't get home."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              143 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 17, 2001, Monday

SEEK 'WISE COUNSEL' AND 'ACT WITH CARE';
 USA TERROR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


RELIGIOUS leaders in Britain yesterday urged America to exercise restraint in
responding to the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Cardinal Murphy-O'Connor, Archbishop of Westminster, and Dr Jonathan Sacks,
Britain's chief rabbi, urged the US to seek "wise counsel" and to act with
"precision".

Cardinal Murphy-O'Connor told GMTV's Sunday programme, "World leaders will want
to take actions in response to this that will not lead to greater evils.

"Those who have committed this terrible crime and are responsible for it must be
brought to justice, of that there is no doubt, and I think it is in that sense
that all of us understand the righteous anger of the United States."

He added, "But, I think, how that justice is brought about is the key question.
It is easy to say this, but never was there a time over the past many, many
years when wise counsel is needed and I think that here in Britain we are in a
good position to give wise counsel as a very close ally of the United States."

Dr Sacks told the programme the "shocking and terrifying" images would stay with
him for the rest of his life.

"This is undeniably evil and if this isn't evil then we have lost our moral
sense, " he said. "There is an enormous difference between terror and war. In
war there is a known enemy, there are rules and there are known risks.

"In terror you don't know who the enemy is and the victims are innocent
civilians at war with nobody."

He continued, "Civilisation depends on our ability to control our anger and
whatever happens now must not happen out of anger it must be considered,
effective, precise, just.

"What we saw on Tuesday was a very precisely targeted attack and what the
response must be, must be equally precisely targeted otherwise you will find
that you will create a problem worse than the one you began with."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNITED IN GRIEF: About 10,000 people took part in a memorial service in
commemoration of the victims of the terrorist attacks in America in front of the
Catholic Virgin Mary cathedral in Erfurt, eastern Germany.; RIGHT: Cheri and
Tony Blair leave Westminster Cathedral after attending an evening service

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              144 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 17, 2001

Waiting in the wings. . . the vital network of support;
 Meet those offering back-up to the growing number of people hit by the U.S.
tragedy

BYLINE: Stuart Coles

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 747 words


AS the West holds its breath to hear inevitable news of loved ones lost in the
U.S. terrorist attacks, a network of support is ready and waiting.

From the moment the massive number of casualties began to be realised,
organisations across the region were told to expect the worst.

This weekend the number of people reported missing passed the 5,000 mark. Last
night only 180 bodies had been recovered, of which 115 were positively
identified.

Between 200 and 300 Britons are expected to be among the dead.

Tony Blair has made it clear Britain will stand shoulder-to-shoulder with the
U.S. in the event of any retaliatory military strikes against those responsible
for the horrors.

With several American military bases in the region, the fall-out of the atrocity
is set to be felt by an ever growing number of people in the West as the days
and weeks go by.

In the words of one counsellor, who will be expected to give support to grieving
families: "In some communities, almost everybody knows somebody in some way
affected."

Scotland Yard has put all police forces in the region on alert - urging them to
be on stand-by to take the strain if the Met's 'Casualty Bureau' cannot manage.

Officers are dealing with a wave of anxious calls from people eager for news of
missing friends and relatives. All are growing more desperate by the hour.

Somerset Victim Support has been asked by Avon and Somerset police to provide
support for local families who have lost members in the attack.

It has worked closely with officers in the past on such things as road deaths
and murders.

Now it will liaise with other organisations, including the military and
hospitals, and is looking to recruit volunteers who want to help, or who have
experience of helping victims of such large traumas.

Victim support area manager Paula Lloyd stressed it would be a very traumatic
time for families and volunteers alike.

"It will not be like any bereavement work undertaken by us ever before, " she
said.

"It is probably very unlikely that many bodies will ever be found or returned.

Usually with a death the person is close at hand, and there is a body and a
funeral to focus on. This is very different."

She said support workers do not yet know the true scale of the task they will
face. "Avon and Somerset Police are very on the ball on this sort of thing, but
we do not yet know what demand there will be - it could be none, or it could be
huge, " she said.

Regional police forces are taking details from worried friends and the families
of missing people, and the Metropolitan Police then sees if any of them match
those of people confirmed dead.

If a query produces a match, someone must break the news to the people waiting
at home.

Chief Inspector Matt Johnson of Wiltshire police's child protection unit is
among those shouldering some of that responsibility.

His department has a number of family liaison officers, trained in dealing with
the sort of things most policemen dread - informing family and friends that a
loved one is dead or injured.

He said officers are available to both offer support and help families in
tracking people down.

"Family liaison officers act as a link between the investigating officer and the
family, " he said. "They have to ask the right questions sensitively; it's a
balance.

"It's not simply about being nice to people."

There is no one type of person suited to the work, said Chief Inspector Johnson.

But, he explained, officers very quickly know if they can stomach it. Women, on
the whole, tend to volunteer more than men.

"It is different. You can become almost one of the family, but you can't get too
involved, you are not a friend - you have to be professional, " he said. "You
have to have an 'exit strategy' when it is time to leave them and that can be
hard."

HHelp is on your doorstep For those waiting of news of friends and relatives in
the U.S. , PC Jill Dawson is not someone they would wish to see at their door.

She has been appointed family liaison officer for Wiltshire Police for any
victims of the attacks. As co-ordinator for family liaison officers based in
Salisbury, she is no stranger to grief.

"But this is on a much larger scale, " she said.

"One of my roles is to establish a relationship with the family and to help in
any way I can."

She will refer them to specialist organisations for bereavement counselling or
further help.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              145 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 17, 2001

Out with the pomp and in with the poignant;
 Usual Last Night patriotic exuberance gives way to reflective mood after
American tragedy - Audience pride in taking part

BYLINE: Lucy Rodgers

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 714 words


THE Stars And Stripes flew alongside the Union Jack at the Last Night of the
Proms this weekend. It was a poignant display of respect for a people wounded by
terrorism.

In a solemn symbol of Britain's special relationship with America, the red,
white and blue of America stood "shoulder to shoulder" with the flags of
Scotland, England, Wales and the United Kingdom.

And the usually exuberant concert-goers were in subdued mood, with the
jingoistic anthems of Rule Britannia and Elgar's Pomp and Circumstance
abandoned.

They were replaced by the emotional Barber's Adagio for Strings and the choral
finale from Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, intended to reflect the strong emotional
link between Britain and the U.S. after last week's terrorist attack.

As usual, promenaders in vests and jeans rubbed shoulders with those dressed in
dinner jackets and gowns, but the usual enthusiastic British patriotism was
noticeably absent.

Thousands of voices joined in the only remaining traditional hymn, Jerusalem,
played for the 50th time this year, and the audience linked arms in a show of
unity during Auld Lang Syne.

The air was raw with emotion as people stood to attention for both God Save The
Queen and the U.S. national anthem, The Star Spangled Banner.

And the usual silence between performances was shattered by one audience member
shouting "God Save The Queen, Long Live America, " which was met with a ripple
of applause.

The presence for the first time of an American conductor, BBC symphony orchestra
chief Leonard Slatkin, at the Albert Hall had been planned before last week's
terrorist attacks.

But the change in programme led the U.S. National Public Radio to broadcast the
proms for the first time on 300 stations across America.

Fans had queued for hours to get their tickets, buying American flags by the
dozen.

And at the start Mr Slatkin, filled with emotion, told his audience how last
week's events had affected the mood of the orchestra.

He said: "All of us understood what it truly meant to be a musician, to be part
of what is one of the most incredible experiences in the world.

"One thing became very clear to us, that the very special nature of the Last
Night of the Proms for this night would not be the same."

The London audience observed a minute's silence to remember the thousands of
lives lost in the horrific attack.

Only a solitary helium balloon decorated with the Stars and Stripes hovered
above the arena.

Some members of the audience dabbed away tears as they recalled the scenes in
New York and Washington.

The silence was followed by the tender sound of Barber's Adagio, which Mr
Slatkin said was played as a "memorial."

"The music, the intensive emotion of that work has come to mean something very
special, not just for Americans but, I think, for everyone. It is our music for
grief, " he said.

Thousands of fans watched the concert in live links around the country, in
Gateshead, Cornwall, Liverpool and at Hyde Park in London.

The event was also beamed to TV audiences in 40 countries, as well as U.S.
radio.

Mr Slatkin added: "It's not for me to speak on behalf of the American public but
all of us are so moved by everything you have done over these last four horrific
days.

"The bonds between our countries, indeed all the countries that have pledged
their sympathy and support, have been extraordinary."

Music critic David Gillard said afterwards he was not sure that changing the
programme had been universally popular with concert-goers.

He said: "I have been listening to people in the audience tonight and many of
them thought it should have been a less sombre occasion."

But leaving the hall in South Kensington, others expressed pride at having been
part of the occasion.

Jeremy McFarland, a 31year-old mature student, said:

"The atmosphere may not have been what we usually expect, but I will remember it
for the rest of my life, and feel proud to have shown my respect at this
terrible time."

Harry Whitaker, also from London, said: "The memory of Barber's Adagio being
played will be with me for years to come. It was an astonishing atmosphere and I
think everybody here felt a sense of empathy with those affected by the
tragedy."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              146 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: TERRORISTS ALREADY HAVE NUCLEAR ARMS, MI6 SAYS;
 WARNING

BYLINE: Colin Brown Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 327 words


MI6 has warned the Government that terrorist groups behind the US suicide
attacks already have access to chemical and biological weapons.

The Independent on Sunday has learnt that security and intelligence reports led
to the warnings in the Commons on Friday by Tony Blair and Jack Straw, the
Foreign Secretary, that next time the terrorists may use chemical, biological or
even nuclear weapons.

Some Labour MPs and ministers have privately said the World Trade Centre attack
showed the US "Star Wars" project - national missile defence - is incapable of
stopping terrorists. Mr Straw, however, has told colleagues, again privately,
that the week's events make it more vital than ever to develop a defensive
system against a nuclear attack from a rogue terrorist state.

Attacking Osama bin Laden's camps in Afghanistan may be only the first step. The
Prime Minister has hinted clearly at action against other countries, such as
Iraq, that have acquired weapons of mass destruction and may supply terrorist
groups. He said that states who traded the technology needed to be exposed, and
the trade "stamped out".

Ministers are also planning European-wide agreements on extradition, to make it
easier for alleged terrorists to be returned to other European countries to face
trial. The French have been pressing Britain for years to close down
London-based Algerian groups linked to bin Laden.

In a separate move, the IoS has learnt that the Government is now committed to
introducing identity cards to be used as proof of British citizenship. Hints
were given by the Home Secretary about the move, which is being taken to stem
the tide of asylum-seekers from Calais.

Downing Street was keen to avoid accusations that the Government was being
"illiberal", but was persuaded by the growing evidence that Britain was being
targeted because of its lack of a national identity card, which enables illegal
immigrants to escape detection.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              147 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                               September 16, 2001

Polls show support for US action

LENGTH: 324 words


THE American and British public overwhelmingly stands behind President George
Bush and his planned war on terrorism, the first surveys of public opinion after
Tuesday's attacks show.

About four in five people in the American polls support military action to
avenge the terrorist attacks, think more terrorist attacks in the US are at
least somewhat likely, and approve of the job being done by the president.

Nearly three-quarters of British people would support a military strike against
those behind the terror attacks on America, according to a Mori poll in one
Sunday newspaper.

The poll says 74pc would back such an attack, with 69pc supporting British
involvement in America's threat to attack countries such as Afghanistan, Iraq,
Iran and Libya, who are harbouring those responsible.

And 84pc of those surveyed told pollsters they were worried similar attacks
could happen in Britain. Mori interviewed 500 adults by telephone on Friday.

Polls taken by ABC-Washington Post, CBS, CNN-Time Magazine and NBC all reflect
the huge margins favouring a strong military response and backing the president.

Those numbers don't drop, even if people are reminded that a military response
could start a broader war.

By more than a 2-1 margin, people said they were more concerned the country
would underreact, not overreact.

Some, however, want the US military response to be carefully targeted, and to be
set alongside political and economic sanctions.

Key findings of the polls:

l Terrorism was considered the top problem faced by the country today, far ahead
of the economy.

l Seven in 10 said they favoured a military response even if it should result in
a long war with high US military casualties.

l Nine in 10 favoured tougher air travel safeguards

l Large majorities said the attacks made them more likely to show more
appreciation of loved ones, fly the flag, pray more and donate blood.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              148 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Life

                               September 16, 2001

Sporting world pays respects

LENGTH: 262 words


WINDSOR Park and sports grounds across Northern Ireland and the rest of Britain
fell silent yesterday, as fans and players paid their respects to the victims of
the New York and Washington massacres.

Players from Linfield and Coleraine stood, their heads bowed, around the centre
-circle for a minute's silence before yesterday's Premier League clash.

The scenes were repeated at football, rugby and hockey matches across Ulster as
the sporting world paid tribute to those who perished in the world's worst
terrorist attack.

A minute's silence was also observed before all English and Scottish football
matches.

At Goodison Park, Liverpool and Everton skippers Sammi Hyppia and Kevin Campbell
laid wreaths on top of the US flag, placed in the centre-circle, ahead of the
Merseyside derby.

Most players chose to wear black armbands in tribute to the thousands of dead.

The American flag was also flown at half-mast outside the Recreation Ground in
bath ahead of the Zurich Premiership rugby match between Bath and Saracens.

Scottish football and rugby fixtures also observed the minute's silence.

Most sporting events went ahead, in spite of calls for events to be cancelled.

Earlier in the week, UEFA cancelled a round of matches in both the Champions'
League and UEFA Cup.

Meanwhile, the fate of golf's Ryder Cup, due to start at The Belfry in two
weeks, still hangs in the balance.

The Lancome Trophy event will go ahead in Paris next week, but American stars,
including Tiger Woods have pulled out, due to travelling fears.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers

                              149 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 16, 2001

MOMENT WHEN BRITAIN WELCOMED A PRESIDENTIAL BLAIR

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1089 words


W

ith a horrible irony, Tony Blair was in that target of IRA terrorism, the Grand
Hotel, Brighton, when the news came of the terror attacks on America. His aides
were looking at the TV to see how their pre-spin on his imminent TUC speech had
taken and called him to the set. He saw the impact of the second plane on the
World Trade Centre live.

There was no US presidential-style vacillation as to where the prime minister
should go and what he should do. As soon as it was clear that human hands had
deliberately caused the catastrophe, Blair decided to return to London because
he feared the capital would soon be attacked.

Those worried by Blair's presidential pretensions would be most gratified by the
modest manner of his going. A dash to Brighton station in a two-car motorcade,
one with its security hooter jammed on, a train to Victoria with Connex South
East at its blistering best (10 minutes late), no refreshment trolley and a VIP
tea urn which jammed for the prime minister.

The murderous attacks on New York and Washington, of course, go obscenely beyond
the diversionary "punch-up" I suggested Blair was in search of earlier this
month. However, he looked much more at ease shifting into crisis mode than he
had limbering up to mingle with the brothers and barons at the Trades Union
Congress. All the props were quickly assembled - crisis meetings in Cobra
(Cabinet Office Briefing Room A), Blair's daily TV appearances, cabinet
ministers specially tasked.

Crisis management is what Blair does best - especially when, as this time,
Britain and its government are not yet at the eye of the storm. It requires good
communications and inclusive "big tent" coalition building which transcends
party politics.

In the Commons debate, the new Conservative leader pulled off an elegant and
eloquent debut. The enforced stealth of his launch may even benefit him.
Nonetheless, it must have been galling for Iain Duncan Smith, and a bitter
reminder of the political mountain he has to climb, that his first task was to
"congratulate wholeheartedly" his opponent on his deft handling of the 21st
century's biggest international crisis.

To rub it in, the Liberal Democrats are already floundering. Charles Kennedy
declined wisely to put down the promised "no blank cheque for Bush" marker in
the Commons, leaving that for Labour backbenchers. His predecessor, Lord
Ashdown, conceded ruefully that Blair, "a smarmy git" at home, had not put a
foot wrong abroad.

Blair's instinct to form an alliance with whoever happens to be the American
president over-rode all other considerations from the moment the planes struck.
After Iraq, Kosovo and Colombia, there was never any doubt that he would back
America all the way to the shedding of blood in revenge.

Not since the Falklands conflict has there been any doubt that a serving prime
minister will be able to back his words with troops and weapons. But these
verities cannot tell us what will happen next. Can Blair translate the form of
doing the right thing into achieving anything positive - in other words, more
than a series of heavy-handed punishment strikes? And given that this is
primarily the fight of a right-wing US president who is viewed with great
suspicion by many here, can the prime minister do it without dividing his
country?

"Standing shoulder to shoulder with America" does not have to mean doing
everything that America does. Indeed, US secretary of state Colin Powell has
already stated that there are some actions which his bloodied country wants to
take alone.

With great maturity, the Bush administration has so far eschewed Clinton-style
gesture politics, preferring premeditation to an angry salvo of Tomahawk
missiles into Kabul. But the delay will store up difficulties for Blair. Whole
hearts now will soon turn into faint hearts.

The prime minister knows it - with a characteristically biblical inflection he
warned MPs: "There is something we must guard against from the outset; we must
not let the passage of time dull our determination." At the time of writing, no
stated strategy to prosecute Colin Powell's "military, diplomatic, political and
economic" war against terror has emerged. But it is clear the US is trying to
build an international coalition to confront terrorist networks in general and
the countries which harbour them.

The British and Americans may say this is aimed at a new kind of "unseen" enemy,
but it seems likely that America's period of deliberation will end in the
issuing of ultimatums to nation states caught up in Islamic fundamentalism:
Afghanistan, Iraq, Iran, Sudan, Libya, perhaps Pakistan.

The stated aim will be "to rip up" the terrorist networks, but the implicit one
is to crush both the monster and the carapace which protects it. If there is to
be an end to terror, the regimes which have supported it will have to be
curtailed as well. His father's son, George Bush knows that this time there can
be no turning back on the road to Baghdad.

Blair has been the most active non-American alliance builder. So far, the world
appears exceptionally united, thanks to Nato's unprecedented invocation of
common cause with America, the UN Security Council resolution, and the
near-universal official expressions of condemnation. But this alliance will not
endure if America (with Blair's blessing) presses on once the immediate suspects
have been dealt with. Already "proportionate" punitive action at worst is being
urged by voices ranging from former Tory foreign secretary Lord Howe to the BBC
Question Time audience, across the Labour backbenches and throughout the
Guardian/New Statesman metropolitan elite. Such limited action cannot possibly
satisfy the aims already laid out by Bush, Blair, Jack Straw and Powell.

The attacks on America are the most dramatic events of this young century.
British politicians are as unsighted as the rest of us about where we are going
from here. Will this just be another news story, with things getting back to
normal after a shoot-out with Osama bin Laden? Or will things, in Straw's words,
"never be the same again"? Are we heading for the big, new sort of war, Bush has
gropingly described?

My guess is the latter. This age of instant televised news demands a spectacle
from the forces of good to match those by the terrorist forces of evil. And
today's definition of leadership, so well understood by Blair, demands
epoch-making action to salve this "epoch-making tragedy".

Adam Boulton is political editor of Sky News


LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              150 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

AMERICA AT WAR: THE CALL OF DESPAIR : 5,506 TOLL OF MISSING AND DEAD RISES

BYLINE: Mike Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 224 words


THE feared death toll after the New York terror attacks jumped to 5,506 last
night.

New figures broke down the casualties as follows: New York World Trade Center
dead - 152, missing feared dead 4,963; American Airlines Flight 11 - 92 dead;
United Airlines Flight 175 - 65 dead; Pentagon - 125 dead and missing; American
Airlines Flight 77 - 64 dead; United Flight 93 (Pennsylvania) - 45 dead.

The number of dead hijackers is believed to be 18.

Rescue teams combed the wreckage of the Trade Center buildings as the number of
missing rose by 200 yesterday. Hope of finding more survivors faded as fire
smouldered under 450,000 tons of rubble.

None have been found since Wednesday. Bodies recovered include scores of
firefighters and police officers, with 92 identified so far.

The FBI have quizzed 25 people in connection with the atrocities and one man -
described as a "material witness" - was arrested in New York.

In Britain, Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch raided a house in Brixton,
South London, on behalf of the FBI. No arrests were made. And a small group of
Met Police officers arrived in New York yesterday to help identify British
victims.

To the relief of the business community, the US Stock Exchange in Wall Street is
due to reopen tomorrow after computers were successfully tested yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              151 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

HELL ON EARTH: IT'S GREAT TO BE BACK HOME;
 FLIGHTS RELIEF TOURIST BRITS TELL OF FEARS AND REUNION JOY

BYLINE: Paul Malley KATY READER... emotional reunion with her family

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 399 words


MIDLAND holidaymakers stranded in Canada during the USA terrorist attacks
yesterday spoke of their relief at arriving safely back in Britain.

The Sunday Mercury spoke to passengers as they entered the arrivals lounge at
Birmingham International Airport after their Air Transat flight from Toronto.

The scheduled service - one of the first transatlantic flights to land at
Birmingham since the atrocity - was about 40 minutes late when it touched down
just after 11am yesterday.

After an emotional meeting with her mum, Katy Reader, a 19-year-old from
Birmingham, said: 'I'm so glad to be back in Britain.'

Katy was in the second week of her holiday in Canada when the terrorists
launched their assault on America.

Paranoid

'I was quite paranoid about what was happening in New York and Washington,' she
said. 'Thankfully, I was staying with family in Canada so they looked after me -
but it was worrying because I'd been planning to go to New York.'

The Birmingham University student described the flight home as 'a bit scary' and
said she thought security would have been more visible at Toronto airport.

'I thought I would have seen more police and things like sniffer dogs, but I
didn't,' she said.

Bank workers Fiona Harrison and Tasha Marlow, from Leicester, were equally
pleased to be back in the Midlands.

Fiona, 27, went to Toronto for a two-week holiday with her 21-year-old pal and
said: 'After what's happened, we just wanted to get home.

'We weren't really worried about flying. The main problem we had was finding out
information about flights back to Britain. Thankfully, we were able to fly back
as planned.'

Elsewhere, long queues formed at Heathrow Airport yesterday as delayed
passengers tried to get seats on flights to America.

American and United Airlines, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic are all
running services to the States now that flying restrictions have been lifted.

Singer Lulu was close to tears as she returned to the UK yesterday on the first
British Airways flight from New York since the terror attacks.

The star, escorted by a minder, was one of the first people to come through
Heathrow Airport's terminal four following the arrival of BA flight 116 from JFK
Airport.

Gulping back tears she said: 'It's terrible. I'm very fortunate. Words can't
explain what it's like. I'm relieved to be back.'

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              152 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: BUSH WAR CRY;
 THE PRESIDENT: WE WILL HUNT DOWN TERRORISTS IN A LONG AND UNRELENTING CAMPAIGN,
HE VOWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 732 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush last night named Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect in
the terror attacks on the US and told Americans: "Get ready".

In a nationwide radio address, President Bush outlined his plan for a
"comprehensive assault on terrorism".

He said: "This is a conflict without battlefields and beachheads, a conflict
against opponents who believe they are invisible.

"They will learn the lesson that those who make war against the Unites States
have chosen their own destruction.

"We are planning a broad and sustained campaign to secure our country and battle
the evil of terrorism. We will see this through.

"I will not settle for a token act. Our response must be sweeping, sustained and
effective."

And he warned: "You will be asked for your patience, for the conflict will not
be short."

Prime Minister Tony Blair has already pledged Britain's support for any
retaliatory strikes by the US.

On Friday, Bush called 50,000 US military reservists to duty.

He told them: "My message is, for everybody who wears the uniform, get ready.
The United States will do what it takes to win this war."

Yesterday, the Pakistan Government agreed to allow a multi-national force to be
based within its borders.

Pakistan shares a 1560-mile border with Afghanistan, which is believed to be
harbouring bin Laden.

Before meeting national security advisers at the Camp David retreat in Maryland
yesterday, Bush said: "We will find those who did it, we'll smoke them out of
their holes.

"There is a desire by the American people to not seek only revenge, but to win a
war against barbaric behaviour.

"Make no mistake, underneath our tears is the strong determination of America to
win this war and we will win it."

Bush went on: "Americans must brace themselves for great sacrifices because the
conflict will not be easy. We're at war."

The President, for the first time, identified Osama bin Laden as a suspect in
the suicide attacks on Washington and New York, plus the downing of a plane over
Pennsylvania.

He said: "If he thinks he can run and hide from the United States and our
allies, he will be sorely mistaken.

Echoing the words of his father, former President George Bush, after Iraq
invaded Kuwait in 1990, the president added: "This act will not stand.

"We will get them running and we'll bring them to justice.

"We will not only deal with those who dare attack America, we will deal with
those who harbour them and feed them and house them.

"They have stirred up the might of the American people."

Earlier, Bush met with his national security team at the marine-guarded Camp
David presidential retreat in western Maryland.

His advisers at the meeting included Vice President Dick Cheney, Secretary of
State Colin Powell, national security adviser Condoleezza Rice, Defence
Secretary Donald H Rumsfeld and Attorney General John Ashcroft.

After the meeting, Ashcroft said the investigation had made progress, adding:
"We believe the picture is developing a kind of clarity. On the diplomatic
front, support for any US action appeared to be solidifying last night

Powell announced that Pakistan had offered to "assist us in whatever might be
required".

Pakistan - an Islamic country but with strong military and economic ties to the
west - agreed to a full list of US demands for a possible attack on neighbouring
Afghanistan.

That includes allowing a multi-national force, which could launch strikes on
Afghanistan, on its soil.

American demands had included a closure of Pakistan's border with Afghanistan
and permission for flights over Pakistani airspace in the event of military
action.

The US State Department has already taken the unusual step of summoning foreign
diplomatic representatives to warn that their governments would be isolated if
they tolerated or assisted terrorist groups, a senior official said last night.

The strak warning was delivered in separate meetings by top State Department
officials in charge of the five major regions of the world - Europe, the Middle
East, South Asia, Africa and Latin America.

Lawmakers in the US Congress have already passed a measure to allow Bush to
exercise "all necessary and appropriate force" against the terrorists, their
sponsors and protectors.

Only one person, Representative Barbara Lee, voted against the ruling.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              153 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: WAR CRY;
 BUSH TELLS AMERICA: 'GET READY' AS TALIBAN URGES ITS SUPPORTERS TO FIGHT FOR
ISLAM

BYLINE: Lindsay Mcgarvie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 538 words


PRESIDENT George W. Bush last night named Osama bin Laden as the prime suspect
in the terror attacks on the US and told Americans: "Get ready".

And while Bush rallied the nation, Afghanistan's Taliban regime urged Muslims
worldwide to join a Holy War against the US and its allies, including Britain.

In a nationwide radio address President Bush outlined his plan for a
"comprehensive assault on terrorism".

He said: "This is a conflict without battlefields and beachheads, a conflict
against opponents who believe they are invisible.

"They will learn the lesson that those who make war against the Unites States
have chosen their own destruction.

"We are planning a broad and sustained campaign to secure our country and battle
the evil of terrorism. We will see this through.

"I will not settle for a token act. Our response must be sweeping, sustained and
effective."

And he warned: "You will be asked for your patience, for the conflict will not
be short."

Prime Minister Tony Blair has already pledged Britain's full support for any
retaliatory strikes by the US.

Mr Bush's words will be seen as a stark warning to Afghanistan, where Saudi
rebel bin Laden has sheltered for a number of years.

But the leaders of the hard-line Taliban regime seemed to dismiss the threat
from the US and called for a holy war. Mullah Mohammad Omar said: "Death comes
to everyone. We must stand proud as Afghans in the defence of Islam. I am ready
for sacrifice. Every Muslim should be ready for holy war and take strength from
their faith in Islam. We shall be victorious."

Following his statement Abdul Salam Zaeef, Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, said
that war would be declared on any country that allowed its land or airspace to
be used for attacks on Afghanistan.

He said: "If any regional or neighbouring country helps the US attack. It would
draw us into a reprisal war."

The hard-line comments from the Taliban however, are unlikely to deflect Bush
and the US effort to strike back at the terrorists.

Before meeting national security advisers at the Camp David retreat in Maryland,
Bush said: "We will find those who did it, we'll smoke them out of their holes.

"There is a desire by the American people to not seek only revenge, but to win a
war against barbaric behaviour. Make no mistake, underneath our tears is the
strong determination of America to win this war and we will win it."

Meanwhile, in Afghanistan refugees poured towards the Pakistan border where they
were beaten back by Taliban guards armed with sticks.

In the capital Kabul Taliban soldiers positioned their few anti-aircraft weapons
around the city.

The possibility of air or land strikes against Afghanistan for harbouring bin
Laden heightened yesterday as neighbouring Pakistan offered its support to the
US, according to highly-placed sources.

Pakistan's agreement was conveyed by President Pervez Musharraf in a meeting on
Friday with US Ambassador Wendy Chamberlin.

As well as allowing US troops to launch missions from its territory, Pakistan
also agreed to close its border with Afghanistan, allow its airspace to be used
for possible strikes and co-operate in intelligence gathering.

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              154 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

TERRORIST ATTACK NEW YORK: TEARFUL REUNIONS AS FIRST FLIGHTS ARRIVE FROM N.Y.

BYLINE: Billy Paterson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 373 words


THOUSANDS of stranded passengers flew back into Britain yesterday for emotional
reunions with family and loved ones.

In Glasgow and at Heathrow in London, the first flights from New York touched
down within ten minutes of each other.

Tearful singer Lulu was among the first to return after being stranded in New
York following Tuesday's terrorist outrage.

The Glasgow-born star - who had been recording in New York when the terrorists
struck - still looked shaken as she flew into Heathrow at 10.55am.

Holding back tears, she admitted she had to force herself on to the aeroplane.

She added: "It's terrible. I'm very fortunate. Words can't explain what it's
like. It's horrific. I'm very relieved to be back.

"I have been watching TV and I think everything has been said... everything.

"You feel exhausted because it is so emotional. I can't talk about it. It's
something I can't be verbal about."

Ten minutes later, scores of Scots were reunited with their loved ones after
flying into Glasgow Airport on a Continental Airlines flight from Newark.

There were emotional scenes as toddlers ran to greet their fathers and weeping
mothers embraced children they had feared they might never see again.

One of the first to emerge into the arrivals terminal was 32-year-old Edward
Brooks, who was met with a hug from his 18-month-old daughter Libby.

Edward, from Glasgow, was in Manhattan on Tuesday for a one-day business meeting
when the devastating attacks took place.

In the chaos that followed, he was unable to return home to his frantic partner
Marjorie April in their West End home.

He said: "It was very frightening because nobody knew what was happening.

"It was awful waiting because all the shops were closed and nobody could go
anywhere."

Larry Conroy, 71, and his 50-year-old wife Christina, from Greenwich Village,
New York, arrived in Glasgow to begin a Highland holiday they feared they would
never live to enjoy.

Christina said: "The fact we are here is a miracle in itself. I just never
thought we would make it.

"It has been terrible because we only live four blocks away and the first plane
flew over my head, so I saw it happen.

"It is still surreal for me."

LOAD-DATE: September 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              155 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                           September 16, 2001, Sunday

POLLS BACK A MILITARY STRIKE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 197 words


British people would back a military strike against those responsible for the
terror attacks on America - but not if it meant killing innocent civilians,
according to a poll published tin a tabloid today.

The Mori poll found 74% would back an attack on those responsible, and 69% would
support a strike against countries thought to harbour those responsible.

But when asked if they would support action which might involve hurting or
killing innocent civilians only 43% said they would back such strikes, compared
with 46% who would be against them.

The polling organisation telephoned 500 adults across Britain yesterday to
obtain its data. There was also strong support for the way Tony Blair and
President George Bush were handling the crisis.

Meanwhile the American public overwhelmingly stands behind President George W.
Bush and his planned war on terrorism, the first surveys of public opinion after
Tuesday's attacks show.

About four in five people in the polls support military action to avenge the
terrorist attacks, think more terrorist attacks in their country are at least
somewhat likely, and approve of the job being done by the president.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              156 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 15, 2001

Threats against Muslims are growing, says editor

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 251 words


RACIAL taunts against Muslims in Britain have increased after Tuesday's terror
attacks on America, an Islamic community spokesman said.

Women wearing headscarves have been abused and branded "murderers".

Mosques have been vandalised and in one case received a bomb threat, said the
editor of London-based Muslim News, Ahmed Versi.

Some Muslims are so concerned about a backlash from Tuesday's US terror attacks
they are afraid to leave their homes, he said.

Mr Versi said: "The central London mosque was evacuated at 3pm yesterday after
receiving a bomb threat. We have been inundated with emails and calls from
Muslims everywhere, who have been threatened over the last couple of days.

"Two Muslim women observing the Hijab (wearing head scarves) were walking down
the road in Bushey in Hertfordshire, the other day when two men pulled up in a
car and shouted: 'You Muslims are murderers'.

"Another two Muslim women were abused in a shopping centre in Swansea." And in
Belfast, three bricks were thrown at the mosque in Wellington Park, in the south
of the city.

Windows were smashed, but no one was hurt.

Mr Ahmed said there were Muslims among members of the emergency services who
perished when the World Trade Center collapsed and among those working in the
tower.

He also dismissed as a "fringe extremist" the British-based Islamic cleric Abu
Hamza, who told worshippers at a mosque in London today that the terror attacks
on the US were an act of "self defence".

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              157 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

WORLD UNITED IN DAY OF GRIEF: NO QUICK FIX, SAYS TRIMBLE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 306 words


TERRORISM can be beaten but there will be no quick fix to the threat that faces
the civilised world, David Trimble said yesterday.

The UUP leader told MPs that world governments must use sophist- icated
intelligence and target those who funded terrorist groups.

"The links between terror and crime are considerable.

"The links between terrorist organisations are considerable and this is
something we will have to examine very closely and very carefully, indeed.

"If we can somehow take out these sinews of this terrorist conflict, we will
make the task of defeating terror that much easier."

DUP leader Ian Paisley dismissed criticism of President Bush's movements after
the attack, saying that he knew the strictures of being under police protection.

"We must act against these terrorists so that people throughout the whole world
cannot fear what's going to happen on the morrow."

Mr Paisley also rebuked those who suggested that the war was unwinnable.

"This atrocity in the United States, measured in comparison to the population of
Northern Ireland, is very minor.

"Take the figures and you will know that.

"We have been enduring this matter on the same level and more, day in and day
out."

SDLP leader John Hume said that the failure to tackle terrorism would cost more
lives.

He said that one in 500 people had died in Northern Ireland as a result of
terrorist attack while one in 50 had been injured.

If those statistics were to be transferred to Great Britain, he said, it would
have meant that more than 100,000 people would have died and a million been
injured.

In the Lords, Lord Rogan said: "In moral terms, the IRA bomb attacks on the
Baltic Exchange and Canary Wharf are no different from the attacks on the World
Trade Center.

"They differ, indeed, only in scale."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

WORLD UNITED IN DAY OF GRIEF: QUEEN LEADS THE NATION IN TRIBUTE TO US VICTIMS

BYLINE: Hugh Dougherty

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 592 words

HIGHLIGHT: DUBLIN; PHILIPPINESFRANCEBOSNIA; GLASGOW; SWITZERLANDLONDONHAWAII;;
MISSISSIPPI See pages 28-29


MILLIONS fell silent yesterday to publicly mourn the victims of the US terrorist
attacks, as the world waited to learn when and how America would retaliate.

The three-minute silence for those feared dead was marked across Europe and
thousands gathered for a special service of remembrance in St Paul's Cathedral.

The Archbishop of Canterbury urged a congregation, which included the Queen, the
Duke of Edinburgh and the Prime Minister, to pray for America's leaders as they
considered how to respond.

He said those responsible for Tuesday's "barbaric acts" must be held to account
but added: "We must be guided by higher goals than mere revenge."

One of the most poignant ceremonies was in Belfast where thousands gathered
outside the City Hall for the 11am service.

Memories of the Omagh bomb, which killed 29 people and two unborn children in
1998, were never far away as tearful shoppers and office workers gathered to
remember those lost in the US atrocities.

The Prime Minister told an emergency session of Parliament that Britain would
join the US in hunting down those responsible for the "hideous and foul"
attacks.

He said the murder of at least 100 Britons caught up in the strikes should be
treated as if they were killed "in the heart of Britain itself".

Former Liberal Democrat leader Lord Ashdown warned of the potential for nuclear
war if the US was to alienate some Islamic states, and the Taliban regime in
Afghanistan warned of "revenge" if the US attacked it for harbouring suspect
Osama bin Laden.

Nato chief Lord Robertson declared that the alliance would not lash out blindly
in revenge for the terrorist attacks.

Labour left winger Dennis Skinner brought cries of "shame" from fellow MPs when
he said there was "a world of difference" between standing shoulder to shoulder
with the American people and "clinging to the coat tails of an American
President whose first act when those fire- fighters were standing 10 feet tall
among the rubble of the World Trade Center was to scurry off to his bunker".

European leaders sought to quell any moves toward war-mongering, with several
figures saying that "we are not at war".

French premier Lionel Jospin led his Cabinet in the Europe-wide three-minute
silence for victims, and said: "We are not at war against Islam or the Arab
-Muslim world."

Belgian foreign minister Louis Michel, said that the EU was "on watch" and
"mobilised" but added: "We are not at war."

Three days after the attacks, just a handful of survivors have been found and
fewer than 100 bodies have been recovered, of which only 30 had been identified.

Britons and Americans wept together in an emotional display of

solidarity that deeply moved the Queen at St Paul's Cathedral which was filled
with mourners and surrounded outside by thousands more.

Ranks of mourners in the congregation struggled with their emotions as the
cathedral's giant organ loudly piped out the US national anthem.

Many Britons joined in singing the words, some with their hands on their hearts
and with tears trickling down their cheeks.

Afterwards, there was silence - except for gentle sobs - as 17-year-old Lauren
Willoughby, an American student in London, lit a candle on behalf of the US
people.

On the steps of the cathedral, the Queen told US student Marianne Thiel, 21,
from Minnesota: "Wasn't it a beautiful service?" Americans called out "thank you
Ma'am" as she passed.

A Buckingham Palace spokesman said she had been "extremely moved" by the
service.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TENNIS: DAVIS CUP IS OK FOR BRITS

SECTION: Pg. 43

LENGTH: 122 words


Great Britain's Davis Cup clash with Ecuador next week will go ahead as planned.

The Lawn Tennis Association (LTA) said they had given careful consideration to
the match in the pacific port city of Guayaquil after the terrorist attacks in
America this week but, after consulting with the International Tennis
Federation, they had decided to proceed as planned.

Members of the LTA are already in South America preparing for the tie while the
British team are scheduled to arrive this weekend.

The LTA said in a statement: 'The ITF have spoken to all the national
federations involved in the Davis Cup and we can confirm that the GB v Ecuador
tie will go ahead as planned, not withstanding any further developments.'

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              160 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TENNIS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 117 words


Great Britain's Davis Cup clash with Ecuador next week will go ahead as planned.

The Lawn Tennis Association (LTA) said they had given careful consideration to
the match in the pacific port city of Guayaquil after the terrorist attacks in
America but, after consulting with the International Tennis Federation, they had
decided to proceed as planned.

Members of the LTA are already in South America preparing for the tie while the
British team are scheduled to arrive this weekend.

The LTA said: "The ITF have spoken to all the national federations involved in
the Davis Cup and we can confirm the GB v Ecuador tie will go ahead as planned,
not withstanding any further developments."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              161 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

FOOTBALL: WALKER STRANDED BY U.S. HORROR;
 ROSS CO V INVERNESS CT

BYLINE: Alasdair Fraser

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 316 words


CALEY THISTLE keeper Nicky Walker has been stranded in the United States
following the horrific terrorist attacks.

The former Rangers and Aberdeen star was in Texas on business when the nightmare
scenes unfolded and has so far been unable to fly back to Britain with much of
American airspace still closed.

Veteran Jim Calder is on stand-by to deputise in today's Highland derby if
Walker remains stranded in the States.

Midfielder Charlie Christie said: "Nicky was away in the States on business. We
haven't heard from him yet but we are assuming he is having difficulties.

"If he is absent, Jim Calder can step in and do a great job."

Walker left Ross County under freedom of contract in the summer and signed for
their fiercest rivals. Today's game would have been his derby debut for Caley
Thistle.

Christie reckons staying above Ross County is the biggest prize on offer to his
Inverness team-mates this season. With no serious championship aspirations at
either club, the former Celt insists it's a case of 'beat-your-neighbour' in the
First Division campaign.

Christie said: "I think a lot of County fans had the expectation this season
their club would finish above us in the Scottish League for the first time in
seven years.

"But given the fact neither club is going to win the championship, staying above
County and finishing in the top half of the table would be our twin aims this
season."

Caley Thistle boss Steve Paterson is also sweating over wide midfielder Barry
Robson after his knock against Arbroath but is confident he will play.

Ross County boss Neale Cooper was heartened by his side's return to form in the
3-0 victory over Brechin City in midweek.

He said: "It was vital we got that win ahead of this game. If we had gone into
the derby on the back of another defeat, I don't know what effect it might have
had on our players."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              162 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: OUEEN WEEPS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 89 words


DAY OF PRAYER: 800 million in silent mourning for the dead from the US, Britain,
Ireland, Germany, Austria, China, South Korea, Japan, Taiwan, the Philippines,
Australia, Bangladesh, Lebanon, Zimbabwe, Italy, South Africa, Colombia, Mexico,
Portugal, Switzerland and Canada.
  The Queen wipes away a tear as she leaves yesterday's memorial service at St
Paul's Cathedral for victims of Tuesday's terrorist atrocities in America. She
led millions of mourners across Britain and Europe in an unprecedented three
-minute silence

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              163 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 15, 2001

Silence marks sombre tribute

BYLINE: JAMES GARNETT

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 543 words


PLYMOUTH fell silent for three poignant minutes yesterday as the city remembered
those who perished in the terrorist attacks on America.

As the clocks struck 11am, hundreds paused at the Mayflower Steps, the Barbican
and across the city centre. Only the cries of seagulls broke the quiet.

The tribute was repeated in towns and cities throughout Britain and Europe.

At St Paul's Cathedral, the Queen, Duke of Edinburgh, Prince of Wales and the
Prime Minister were joined by a congregation of 2,600 as they led Britain's
tributes at a sombre and emotional service.

Outside, several thousand people listened to the service relayed on loud
speakers.

In Plymouth, normally bustling shops, businesses, factories, schools and courts
of law ground to a halt as people recalled the terrible images of Tuesday's
attacks on New York and Washington.

Many Plymothians, with their own historic connection to the United States, were
clearly deeply moved during the tribute.

Perhaps the most moving scenes took place at the Mayflower Steps, where an
estimated 300 people gathered.

Lord Mayor David Viney and Lady Mayoress Pauline Viney joined those paying their
respects at St Andrew's Church.

City centre stores, crowded with shoppers, ceased trading and asked customers
not to enter their premises during the three minutes.

Debenhams manager Matthew Donnelly, said customers and staff observed the
silence.

He said: "We had some customers who were visibly upset. You could hear a pin
drop."

At Sainsbury's, Marsh Mills, the mood was solemn, said staff.

"Normally we are used to a one-minute remembrance silence, but three minutes
gave everyone a lot to think about," said a spokesman.

At Plymouth Crown Court, Judge Issard-Davies and barristers stood for three
minutes. Magistrates also observed the silence.

Office workers at Plymouth City Council and South Hams District Council stopped
their work. And at factories and businesses, including American-owned Wrigley's
and at Devonport Dockyard workers paused in their duties.

School children were also deeply moved, and many schools held further silences
at assemblies.

Lessons at Hele's School, which has 1,350 pupils, were suspended at 11am.

Deputy principal Sylvia Sutcliffe said: "There was no noise anywhere. It touched
everybody."

The St Pauls Cathedral service began with the giant organ playing the US
national anthem.

Americans - and many British people - in the congregation placed a hand on their
hearts and sang the words, some with tears trickling down their cheeks.

US Ambassador William Farish and the Duke of Edinburgh each read a lesson.

And in his address the Archbishop of Canterbury Dr George Carey called for all
to pray for America's leaders.

Afterwards, the Queen, dressed in black, spoke with Americans on the steps of
the cathedral.

SILENT: Todd Barringer, formerly of Arkansas, now living in Liskeard, with an
American flag at the Mayflower Steps, above, and, inset left, The Queen with US
Ambassador William Farish Main Picture Tony Carney NATIONAL TRIBUTE: The scene
at 11am yesterday outside Parliament, left, and, far left, a shopper at
Sainsbury's, Marsh Mills, pauses to reflect on the loss of life in New York and
Washington Picture Teri Cox EM64804

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              164 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 15, 2001

Britain on war footing - Blair Sub - Head:

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 154 words


A PLYMOUTH student who witnessed the horrific terrorist attacks on New York was
back home safe with her family today as Prime Minister Tony Blair put Britain on
a war footing.

Alexandra Murphy came terrifyingly close to death after she chose to visit the
World Trade Center just moments before two hijacked airliners crashed into the
famous twin towers. The 21-year-old had left a subway station and was
approaching the trade centre for a visit when the first jet smashed into the
upper stories of the north tower, only hours before she was due to fly back to
the UK last Tuesday.

She finally managed to book a ticket on Saturday and flew home yesterday. Her
mother Karen said: "It is a huge relief to have her back.  Alex is still very
upset."

Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday said there could be up to 300 British dead,
and warned that Britain was 'at war' with the forces of terrorism.

- Turn to Page Two

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              165 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 15, 2001

GOLF; TIGER'S STAYING AWAY

BYLINE: BY MARK FLEMING

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 110

LENGTH: 461 words


THE cancellation of the Ryder Cup moved a step closer last night when Tiger
Woods withdrew from next week's Lancome Trophy event in Paris.

The world No1 cited fears over security following the terrorist attack on
America as one of the reasons for cancelling. The decision throws further doubt
over the Ryder Cup, which should start in less than two weeks at The Belfry.
With Woods being worried over the safety of flying to Europe, there is little
chance of the event going ahead as planned.

Ryder Cup organisers are still debating whether it is possible to stage the
event in the aftermath of the terror attacks on New York and Washington. They
realise they would, at short notice, have to mount a huge security operation on
a scale never seen at a sporting event in Britain.

However, the players may have the final say, because they may follow Tiger's
lead and refuse to travel.

The world No1 said yesterday it would be inappropriate for him to travel to
Paris.

"Because of the tragic events, I have decided this is not an appropriate time to
play golf. I feel strongly that this is a time to pause, reflect and remember
the victims of Tuesday's horrific attack.

"I have always felt I must be fully committed to each and every competition I
enter, but because of this week's events, I am not. I also fear that the
security risks of travelling overseas are too great."

Several American players have expressed fears about the Ryder Cup. Open champion
David Duval and Ryder Cup team-mate Stewart Cink said they would have to think
long and hard before stepping on a plane bound for The Belfry.

The Ryder Cup is organised jointly by the Professional Golfers' Associations of
Britain and America. The two sides were last night still talking over the future
of the event.

Jim Awtrey, American PGA chief executive said: "We are re-assessing every
logistic connected with the matches, which will take a number of days and will
require input from our government.

"When our assessment has been completed, we will make further announcements as
appropriate." The Europeans have been discussing the increased security fears
with police and armed forces.

The American team would present a high-profile target for terrorists in England,
particularly if US President George Bush decides to launch retaliatory action.

European Ryder Cup spokesman Mitchell Platts said: "We are reviewing all our
plans. We are working closely with the police and other security services to
maximise security and safety for everyone."

BRITAIN'S Davis Cup world group qualifier in Ecuador next week will go ahead,
despite the disaster. But the United States' match against India in
Winston-Salem, North Carolina, has been postponed until next month.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              166 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 15, 2001, Saturday

TERROR IN AMERICA: ANTI-TERRORISM MEASURES - BLAIR AND STRAW WARN OF CHEMICAL
WEAPONS DANGER

BYLINE: Ben Russell Political Correspondent Tony Blair and his wife, Cherie,
mingle with mourners after the memorial service at St Paul's Cathedral Kieran
Doherty/Reuters

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 628 words


TONY BLAIR and Jack Straw both warned yesterday of the danger that fanatical
terrorists could attack with chemical, biological or nuclear weapons.

Addressing an emergency session of Parliament, the Prime Minister described the
attacks against America as "a tragedy of epoch-making proportions", adding that
the world faced a threat from "fanatics capable of killing without
discrimination". He said he feared the terrorists could turn to weapons of mass
destruction, a view that was echoed by the Foreign Secretary.

Mr Straw said: "We need to focus our attention on where the next threat to our
collective security will come from, and it should now be obvious to everyone
that people who have the fanaticism and capability to fly an airliner laden with
passengers and fuel into a skyscraper will not be deterred by human decency from
deploying chemical and biological weapons, missiles or nuclear weapons or other
forms of mass destruction, if these are available to them."

Peter Hain, the Foreign Office minister, added later: "London could have been a
target, (it) could still be a target at some point in the future."

Discussing security in Britain, David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, suggested
that identity cards could be introduced in the wake of the US terrorist attacks.

The atrocities had increased recognition "of our interdependence and the way in
which we need to co-operate globally", Mr Blunkett said. It also posed new
questions about how democracies could defend themselves, the Home Secretary
added.

The Government would have to consider "how far anyone should expect to go in a
democracy in being able to identify, being able to co- operate in terms of
surveillance", he said. "Those things are very difficult issues but they are
ones we are going to have to address if we are actually going to protect the
most basic freedom of all, which is to live in peace without fear."

The Home Secretary said he did not want a debate on the issue "purely on the
back of the attack in the United States" but would return to the topic later in
the year.

Jack Straw is already holding talks with European leaders to tighten extradition
laws and increase controls on organisations identified as terrorist. He invoked
memories of the rise of Nazi Germany and warned the world not to make the
mistakes of appeasement in the 1930s.

He told MPs that Britain had to brace itself for fresh terrorist attacks. Pan
-European measures to combat terrorism are also to be introduced, including a
formal definition of terrorism and plans to harmonise national sanctions against
terrorist groups.

Stephen Byers, the Secretary of State for Transport, Local Government and the
Regions, was also due to meet European transport ministers to discuss
improvements to aviation security.

The Prime Minister spoke to President Bush by telephone yesterday and will spend
the weekend at Downing Street in talks with ministers and other foreign leaders
about the crisis.

The estimated number of Britons killed remained at least 100 yesterday. It
emerged that the Foreign Office helpline had taken more than 16,000 calls from
anxious relatives. Sources at the Foreign Office said they did not believe
terrorist groups had access to weapons of mass destruction, but emphasised that
the Government was reviewing Britain's defences to guard against possible future
threats as well as proven existing terrorist capabilities.

Mr Blair and Mr Straw emphasised that neither the Arab nor the Muslim worlds
were responsible for events in the United States. Mr Straw said: "If, as appears
likely, it is so-called Islamic fundamentalists, we know they do not speak or
act for the vast majority of decent, law-abiding Muslims throughout the world."

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              167 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 15, 2001

Morning Star distribution in Scotland;

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 110 words


FLIGHTS in Britain have been severely disrupted following the terrorist attack
on the World Trade Centre in New York and this has meant the cancellation of the
plane which takes the Morning Star to Scotland.

An alternative road service has been arranged, but it has not been possible to
deliver the paper to shops in Scotland on the day of publication.

We are doing everything possible to restore normal service as quickly as
possible.

However, with the current uncertainty and tighter security for aircraft, it is
likely that problems will continue in the short term.

We apologise to our readers in Scotland for this inconvenience.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              168 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 15, 2001

Blair declares common crusade with US;
 Terrorist raids treated as attacks on Britain

BYLINE: by DANIEL COYSH

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair told an emergency session of the House of Commons
yesterday that he would treat this week's terrorist attacks against the US as if
they had been attacks on Britain.

Mr Blair said that the killing of "at least 100 British citizens, maybe many
more" in the attacks should be treated as if they had been killed "in the heart
of Britain itself."

He told a packed and sombre Commons in his 14-minute statement that "appropriate
action" would taken once those responsible and those who had aided them had been
identified.

The Prime Minister warned states accused of harbouring terrorists "either to
cease their protection of our enemies or be treated as an enemy themselves."

Flanked by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon, Mr
Blair stressed:

"We are talking here about a tragedy of epoch-making proportions."

He pledged that Britain would join the US in hunting down those responsible for
the "hideous and foul" attacks.

New Conservative Party leader Iain Duncan Smith, who is a strong supporter of
the planned US national missile defence system, offered the government the
Tories' full support.

"Together, we must make sure that the perpetrators are hunted down and brought
to justice, " he declared.

The Commons and the House of Lords, which also heard an emergency statement,
joined in observing a Europe-wide three-minute silence at 11am.

Labour backbencher Dennis Skinner was the only MP to risk defying the sombre
mood by contrasting the bravery of emergency workers with the behaviour of US
President George W Bush.

Mr Skinner said that there was "a world of difference" between supporting the US
people and "clinging to the coat tails of an American president whose first act
when those firefighters were standing 10 feet tall among the rubble of the World
Trade Centre was to scurry off to his bunker."

Mr Skinner's comments brought cries of "shame" from other MPs.

Before the debate, Labour MP Chris Mullin warned that a hasty military response
could spark further terrorist attacks.

He said: "It is quite right that we should show our solidarity with the US, but
we should not give the American government a blank cheque.

"There must be some limits to the degree of slaughter we are prepared to
sanction."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

GRAPHIC: ACT OF REMEMBRANCE: MPs (top) observing the three-minute silence for
the victims of the terrorist attacks in the US, in common with firefighters in
the West Midlands (right) and people from all walks of life across Britain

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              169 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 15, 2001

Islamic school shuts in fear of reprisals;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 246 words


BRITAIN'S first state-funded Islamic school was forced to close yesterday to
ensure that pupils are not harassed or attacked in the wake of the terrorist
attacks in New York and Washington.

The Islamia Schools Trust said that the attacks, which have been widely blamed
by politicians and the media on Islamic terrorists, led to Islamia Primary
School in Brent, north-west London, being among several Muslim schools to close
as a precaution.

Chief administrator Zafar Ashras described the decision as vindicated, after the
school received threatening phone calls and a school secretary wearing hijab, or
headscarf, was verbally abused while shopping.

Mr Ashras said: "On the first night after the events in New York, we had an
internal alarm going off twice and we had evidence of an attempted break-in.

"We've also had at least two phone calls that I'm aware of that have been
reported to BT and the police.

"One was from a lady, it was words to the effect of: 'You scum, we will get
you'."

The Association of Muslim Schools said that Brondesbury College for Boys, also
in north London, had been closed in response to harassment fears.

British Muslim children have not yet been targeted for reprisals to the same
degree as elsewhere, especially in the US and Australia.

In Detroit, bomb scares have forced the closure of Arab-American schools and
businesses, while in Brisbane, Queensland, a school bus full of Muslim children
was stoned.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              170 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 15, 2001

Hit back, hit hard, but make it count

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.12

LENGTH: 734 words


IT takes an event of cataclysmic proportions to silence the majority of the
western world.  But the terrorist attacks on the United States this week
succeeded in doing just that. Yesterday millions stood, heads bowed, in honour
of the thousands killed in New York and Washington. It was a powerful gesture of
the deep sympathy so many feel for all those who lost their lives or were
injured, and for the families who mourn.

It was right that this gesture was made, just as it has been right that so much
of normal life has been suspended or postponed in the last few days out of
respect for the dead and concern for the grieving. But it is equally right that
life has to go on, even in the wake of such a truly horrifying and outrageous
attack as this.

And so Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon is right to stress that while extra security
measures have been imposed across Britain, day-to-day life has to continue.
"Panic or disruption can only play into the hands of those who are trying to
destabilise our way of life," Mr Hoon told a specially reconvened House of
Commons.

He stressed that Britain's military activities around the world, in the Balkans
and the Gulf, would continue.  And he told MPs: "Despite the impact that
terrorism has had over recent days we will not forget that, with our allies, we
act as a force for good around the world. We must continue to do so. Otherwise
the terrorists will have achieved one of their aims."

It is now almost inevitable that when the retribution for the terrorist attacks
comes from the United States, Britain will have a supporting role to play. It's
also clear that she will not be alone. Nato's unprecedented decision to give
full military support to whatever action America deems necessary means, in
principle, that the allied nations of the west stand together when a revenge
attack is launched.

There is clearly huge support among the US people for military reprisals, once
it is clear who was behind the attacks and which states have been harbouring the
terrorists. But there is also an entirely proper belief that any such reprisals
must be targeted precisely at those who have blood on their hands. As Lord
Robertson, the Nato leader, said yesterday: "The mad creatures who committed
these terrible crimes this week may have hoped to provoke us into mindless
revenge in order to create even more devastation. They are wrong."

That is a crucial point that must not be lost, however much pressure is put upon
political leaders, both here, and particularly in the United States, to hit back
quickly in order to satisfy the understandable desire to avenge so many deaths.
Other European leaders were also doing their best yesterday to quell any moves
towards warmongering.  French Prime Minister Lionel Jospin stressed that the
west was not at war with the Arab-Muslim world and Belgian Foreign Minister
Louis Michel said the EU was on watch and mobilised, but not at war.

It might be tempting for some to interpret this rather more cautious response to
retribution as a sign of weakness and a chink in the solidarity that has so far
been shown by all the allies of the United States. But that would be wrong. It
is, as the Archbishop of Canterbury, George Carey, told yesterday's moving
memorial service in St Paul's, important for the free world to be guided by
"higher goals that mere revenge" in its consideration of how to respond to this
appalling attack.

The people of the Westcountry have shown their own tremendous support and
sympathy for all those who died. The numbers observing the three-minute silence
yesterday were overwhelming; the attendance at church services being held over
the weekend is likely to be especially high in our region.

It would be quite wrong, and an abuse of the heartfelt solidarity that all those
people have shown the American nation, if its leaders were to launch an
ill-considered attack that took more innocent lives without furthering the cause
of eradicating terrorism.

Retribution must come; it must be powerful and it must send a strong message to
any who harbour terrorists that their behaviour will not be tolerated by the
free and democratic nations of the west. But - for the sake of those Westcountry
children who stood, heads bowed, in silent memory of the victims of terrorism
yesterday - it must also be measured and effective. Otherwise it will add to the
suffering, not end it.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              171 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 14, 2001

Blair warns of large number of British terror victims;
 Terror in America

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 328 words


PRIME minister Tony Blair today warned Britain to expect hundreds of casualties
following the terror attacks iun America.

He said: "There is, I know, an overwhelming feeling of disbelief, shock and
sorrow throughout our country following the appalling terrorist attacks in
America.

"The scale of the calamity we have witnessed, the evil behind such despicable
crimes, has made it difficult to comprehend what has happened.

"And it is important as we discuss these awful events and our response to them
to remember that this is not just a national catastrophe for America.

The Prime Minister, pictured right, continued: "It is also a real and personal
tragedy for many families in our own country.

"The World Trade Centre was right at the heart of the international financial
community.

"It was the workplace for many of the brightest and best from nations all over
the world including hundreds of our own citizens.

"And as the size of the deathtoll becomes clearer, I fear that there will be
scarcely a community in our country where families are not grieving the loss of
a loved one.

"Words are little help in the face of such loss.

"But I want to express my deepest sympathies to all those who are already
grieving or are waiting for the news they most fear.

"They will need all the support we can give them and particularly from family,
friends and neighbours.

"We have, of course, suffered badly from terrorism in this country in the past.

"Many children have lost parents and parents have lost children. Commercial
centres have been destroyed. Military establishments have been attacked.

"Dreadful as these outrages have been, they have been dwarfed by the almost
unimaginable devastation and loss of life we have seen this week.

"It seems all too likely that the number of our citizens alone who lost their
lives on Tuesday will be more than have died in mainland terrorist attacks over
the last 30 years."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              172 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

THIS COLOSSAL TRAGEDY;
 IT'S WORSE THAN 30 YEARS OF IRA TERROR

BYLINE: Prime Minister Tony Blair SHOCK AND SORROW: Prime Minister Tony Blair
believes the attack is not just America's catastrophe but a real and personal
tragedy for many people in this country

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 763 words


AS British families cling to faint hopes that their loved ones may still be
alive, Prime Minister Tony Blair, writing exclusively for the Evening Mail,
warns today that the UK death toll could be greater than all those murdered by
terrorists in Britain over the past 30 years.

THERE is, I know, an overwhelming feeling of disbelief, shock and sorrow
throughout our country following the appalling terrorist attacks in America.

The scale of the calamity we have witnessed, the evil behind such despicable
crimes, has made it difficult to comprehend what has happened.

And it is important as we discuss these awful events and our response to them to
remember that this is not just a national catastrophe for America.

It is also a real and personal tragedy for many families in our own country.

The World Trade Centre was right at the heart of the international financial
community.

It was the workplace for many of the brightest and best from nations all over
the world including hundreds of our own citizens.

And as the size of the death-toll becomes clearer, I fear that there will be
scarcely a community in our country where families are not grieving the loss of
a loved one.

Words are little help in the face of such loss. But I want to express my deepest
sympathies to all those who are already grieving or are waiting for the news
they most fear.

Suffered badly

They will need all the support we can give them and particularly from family,
friends and neighbours.

We have, of course, suffered badly from terrorism in this country in the past.
Many children have lost parents and parents have lost children.

Commercial centres have been destroyed. Military establishments have been
attacked.

Dreadful as these outrages have been, they have been dwarfed by the almost
unimaginable devastation and loss of life we have seen this week.

It seems all too likely that the number of our citizens alone who lost their
lives on Tuesday will be more than have died in mainland terrorist attacks over
the last 30 years.

Some estimates suggest that 20,000 people altogether may have died in New York.
We must all pray that this figure is far too high.

But the fact that this compares closely with the numbers of people who died in
the Blitz throughout the UK shows we are talking about a tragedy of colossal
proportions.

America is our closest ally. The links between our peoples are many and close.
We are people who stand by our friends at times of need and we will do so now.

But I meant more than this when I said on Tuesday that the savage,
indiscriminate attacks on the United States were an attack on Britain as well.

Not just, either, because there are British victims but because what is under
attack is democracy and freedom itself.

That was one of the reasons why I thought it was right to recall Parliament
today because this is a battle between democracy and those who seek to destroy
it.

The targets on Tuesday may have been the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon but
the intention was to strike a blow at the civilised world and the values which
underpin our way of life.

Terrorism of this kind knows no pity nor national borders.

So the international community must - and will - come together to defend those
values, to offer support and help to the United States, to track down and bring
to justice those responsible for these terrible crimes and to work collectively
to prevent such attacks in the future.

Improve security

Here in Britain, we have already taken steps to improve security. Some will be
temporary. Others, where we believe it is right and sensible, could be
permanent.

These measures are, I'm afraid, causing some disruption. But I know that people
will understand they are necessary.

And, despite the tighter security already in place, life throughout most of our
country continues to operate as normal.

Internationally, Britain has already been in close contact with the United
States, our European partners, Russia and other countries around the world.

There is a tremendous determination to stand together with the United States in
this time of personal and national agony, and to tackle this collective threat
to our security and nations.

Over the next few months, the international community must identify the groups
behind terrorism of this kind, how they operate, how they are financed and how
they are supported.

Then we have to take the action necessary to dismantle the machinery capable of
such appalling evil. And I promise we will.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              173 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 14, 2001

Blair pledges to hunt foul killers;
 24 Hours

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 254 words


WESTMINSTER: Prime Minister Tony Blair today vowed Britain would join America in
hunting down those responsible for the "hideous and foul" terror strikes on the
US.

He told a hushed emergency session of the Commons the UK had "not just an
interest but an obligation to bring those responsible to account".

Mr Blair said the murder of "at least 100 British citizens, maybe many more" in
the attacks should be treated as if they had been killed "in the heart of
Britain itself ".

New Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith immediately offered the Government his par
ty's backing.

Mr Blair warned states harbouring terrorists "either to cease their protection
of our enemies or be treated as an enemy themselves".

Mr Blair took pains to stress that if socalled Islamic fundamentalists were
behind the attacks on the World Trade Centre, the Pentagon and the Pittsburgh
hijacking, "we know they do not speak or act for the vast majority of decent,
lawabiding Muslims throughout the world".

Veteran Labour MP Tam Dalyell, Father of the House as the longest serving MP,
urged Britain not to kill innocent civilians in revenge attacks.

"If we do so, we simply recruit more terrorists, " said Mr Dalyell.

The UK fell silent for three minutes today as millions of people mourned the
victims of the US terrorist attacks.

In the biggest outpouring of public grief since the death of Diana, shops,
offices, factories, railway stations, airpor ts, cour ts and schools joined a
Europe-wide gesture of suppor t.

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              174 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

A SILENT TRIBUTE;
 WE PAUSE TO REMEMBER THE VICTIMS OF THE HORROR

BYLINE: Duncan Gibbons SADNESS: The poignant scene at the American embassy in
London, and a terrible reminder of the horror in which so many people died,
among them a huge number of Britons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,3

LENGTH: 341 words


THOUSANDS of people in and around Rugby fell silent this morning in memory of
the victims of the horrific terrorist attacks in America.

Offices, factories, shops and families in their homes joined millions of people
across Europe for three minutes' silence at 11am. The tenor bell at St Andrews
Church, in Church Street, rang out at 11am and again three minutes later to mark
the end of the tribute.

Flags were flying at half-mast at the town hall and fire and police stations as
a mark of respect for victims of the world's worst terrorist attack.

Thousands of people are still missing, presumed dead after two passenger
airliners were flown into the twin towers of the World Trade Centre, in New
York, on Tuesday, and one was flown into the Pentagon, in Washington.

A fourth hijacked jet crashed in Pennsylvania.

Mike Lenihan, director of economic development at Rugby Borough Council, said:
"It's still unknown to us whether any citizens of the borough were working in
that part of the States.

"Information about names and organisations is very light on the ground. We are
all still in a state of shock.

"Our hearts, prayers and sympathies go out to everyone involved in this terrible
tragedy.

"We have offered assistance in the past to other appeals but this whole thing is
still too horrendous for us to absorb - there is no official view about what we
could or should be doing as a council."

Travel agents in Rugby are trying to locate the whereabouts of at least four
local people who were in New York at the time of the terrorist attacks.

Two people flew to the Big Apple at the start of the month after booking with
Yorks Travel, in Albert Street.

Midlands Co-op Travel, in High Street, Rugby, said another Rugby couple had been
due to fly back to Britain on that fateful morning but have been unable to
confirm whether or not they arrived home.

Warwickshire County Council has set up a condolence page on its website -
www.warwickshire.gov.uk - which will be passed on to the US Embassy.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              175 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

A SILENT TRIBUTE;
 WE PAUSE TO REMEMBER THE VICTIMS OF THE HORROR SADNESS: The poignant scene at
the American embassy in London, and a terrible reminder of the horror in which
so many people died, among them a huge number of Britons

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 201 words


MILLIONS of people across Europe were today falling silent for three minutes in
memory of the victims of the US terrorist attacks.

Offices, shops and factories across Britain were stopping work at 11am as part
of the European day of mourning.

In Coventry and Warwickshire, thousands of people were uniting in a gesture of
support for those caught up in the outrage.

Employers, including the city council, were taking part and shops in Coventry
city centre were coming to a standstill. And Coventry's Lord Mayor Cllr Dave
Chater was leading the city's tribute from the centre of the precinct. He said:
"It is almost impossible for us to understand the scale of the tragedy. It has
affected so many people across the world, not only those who have lost family
and friends, but all who value life, democracy and freedom."

Coventry Cathedral was observing the silence, followed by some specially written
prayers, and silent prayers. Coventry firefighters were also paying their
respects, dressing in full uniform for the occasion and standing in silence.

In London, the Queen was attending a televised remembrance service at St Paul's
Cathedral in honour of the victims of the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              176 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

MUSLIMS CONDEMN THIS CRIMINAL ACT, SAYS LEADER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 810 words


As Muslims across the world fear the American reaction to the terrorist attacks,
David Charters speaks to one of their leaders in Liverpool AKBAR Ali looks at
the compass laid in the weave of his prayer mat.

It tells him where Mecca is. And in the little study of his suburban semi, its
direction is south east; a little to the right of the family photograph framed
by a fruit bowl, supported by three carved elephants, on which there rests an
orange.

Soon, Akbar will face the birthplace of the prophet Muhammad for Zuhr, the mid
-day prayer. His faith commands that he must do this five times every day. Akbar
believes in prayer, at all times.

But these are troubled days for the Muslims in Britain.

They are nervous, knowing that they have enemies who will link them all with the
maniacs responsible for the attacks on America.

So far, there have been no physical attacks on members of Liverpool's fast
-growing Islamic community, though some have been subjected to oafish verbal
abuse.

At 76, Akbar is an elder of this community.

In 1947, shortly after Indian independence, the civil servant's son left
Hyderabad for college in Manchester.

Eleven years later, he arrived in Liverpool, where he has remained. With his
wife, Thousif Jehan, he has raised three children, Seema, Tariq and Adil.

Now his dearest wish is to make his fellow Britons understand that Muslims have
no more sympathy for the perpetrators of the atrocities in New York and
Washington DC than Christians, or people of no religion at all.

But the retired electrical engineer believes in the decency and the common sense
of most Liverpudlians.

"People have got used to the idea of living among people who are almost
strangers to them, " he said.

Since Akbar came, the number of Muslims in the city has trebled to about 15,000.
Many attend the mosque in Hatherley Street, Toxteth, which is often filled to
its capacity of 1,500 for the Friday service, overspilling into the Pakistani
community centre next door.

Nine years ago, Akbar was awarded the MBE for his services to racial harmony and
politics.

In 1987, he fought Blackburn for the Liberal Democrats, following that defeat
with another in Liverpool Riverside five years later.

Some Muslims carry a compass and others rely on the sun to place Mecca, in Saudi
Arabia, when saying their prayers. But Akbar said: "It is not absolutely
essential to face Mecca. It is just for the unity of the Muslims.

"The way you face is symbolic, it is your prayers and your actions which are the
crux of the matter. For, if you are in the east you face westwards and in the
west you face east."

Muslims recognise Abraham, Moses and Jesus as prophets of God. But despite its
long history in Spain and other parts of Europe, many people think of Islam as
the religion of terrorism.

"A lot of people are very angry about it and immediately point the finger at
Muslims without establishing the facts, " said Akbar. "At the same time, we feel
uncertain and a little nervous about the reaction it will have, for example,
from the BNP (the British National Party, whose racist policies have gained
support in towns such as Oldham and Blackburn)."

EVENTS in America had given such people more ammunition. "They were not very
friendly anyway, " Akbar said, "but this could lead to them fanning their hatred
towards us. That is why our leaders have to be very careful in the wording of
their statements.

"Despite the talk of Osama bin-Laden, who claims to be a Muslim, you have to be
clear that it is not the Muslims in general who are doing anything like this.

"We are as much against this sort of criminal act as anybody else. We have no
hesitation whatsoever in condemning this act of terror and mass murder."

The word Islam has two meanings. One is peace. The other is submission (to the
will of God).

However, the faith does allow for arms to be taken up against an oppressor. It
is, of course, in identifying an oppressor that conflict can arise, particularly
among the Shi'ites who are generally more extreme than the majority Sunnis.

But Akbar, chairman of the Liverpool Islamic Institute Trust, and a former
president and trustee of the Liverpool Muslim Society, said that the attacks on
America met none of the Islamic requirements for a just war.

They were suicide attacks and suicide is not permitted by Allah, who requires
people to protect their own lives and those of others.

"Obviously it is some group which is taking revenge against the symbols of
capitalism, the symbols of power, " he said.

It was time for prayer. "You stand up first, kneel down, and then you prostrate,
" he said.

"There is a beautiful passage in the Koran saying that we have been made a
nation which is justly balanced. You enjoy what is right. You forbid what is
wrong."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRIED: Akbar Ali

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              177 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

CONSTRUCTION GRINDS TO A HALT AT CANARY WHARF

BYLINE: Mark Potter And Abigail Townsend Business Correspondents

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 364 words


THE owner of Britain's tallest building at London's Canary Wharf has halted new
speculative construction - but last night denied it was linked to the terror
attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York.

While upbeat about its prospects, Canary Wharf Group plc - the UK's second
-largest property firm - said : "In the short term, the cyclical slowdown of the
economy and the financial services sector will inevitably have an effect on the
London office market in general."

Chief executive George Iacobescu said the firm was on "heightened security
alert" but stressed the damage wrought by hijacked aircraft was not just aimed
at tall buildings.

Experts predict, howver, that, in the wake of the attack on Manhattan, the risk
premium on tall buildings was bound to increase.

Canary Wharf's 800-feet tower at One Canada Square has already come under
terrorist attack. It was bombed five years ago by a Northern Ireland breakaway
group.

The group announced a year of "considerable progress" yesterday after letting
3.3m square foot of space.

During the year to June 30, eight companies took space at the group's London
Docklands development, including City banks Morgan Stanley and Lehman Brothers
and Clifford Chance, one of the world's largest law firms.

Turnover at the group, gleaned primarily from rents and service charges, surged
39.2pc to pounds 159.2m.

Rental income jumped from pounds 81.6m to pounds 121.7m on the back of higher
rates and the expiry of rent-free and rent-reduced periods. Service charges also
went up - by 10.5pc to pounds 28.4m - with more residents.

Pre-tax profits dipped from pounds 54.1m to pounds 42.5m, although the figures
last year was bolstered by a pounds 39.1m one-off gain on the sale of
properties.

Stripping that out, operating profit soared on the back of the improvement in
turnover by 45.8pc to pounds 91.7m.

Since the year end, Canary Wharf has struck deals with three new tenants, the
largest being Barclays, which is moving its head office to the site.

The group also said it was in "advanced discussions" with US law firm Skadden
Arps Slate Meagher & Flom regarding 140,000 sq ft of space.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEIGHTENED SECURITY: Canary Wharf in Docklands

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              178 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

Outrage at anti-US 'bias' on BBC

BYLINE: By Andrew Hibberd

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 284 words

A SPECIAL Question Time edition on the US terrorist attacks was condemned by BBC
viewers as "tasteless and insensitive" last night.

They complained that the audience appeared to be heavily biased against the US
after some members claimed that it was ultimately responsible for the deaths of
its own nationals and hundreds of Britons.

Phil Lader, the former US ambassador to Britain, was on the panel and appeared
to fight back tears as he was shouted down while trying to tell the audience of
his sadness at their apparent lack of human kindness.

Lord Ashdown was rarely allowed to complete a sentence during the programme,
chaired by David Dimbleby.

Many viewers rang The Daily Telegraph. "The audience was packed with
Left-wingers and a high percentage of Muslims. The programme amounted to nothing
more than an attack on America," said one.

"An insensitive, unbalanced, appalling programme which gives completely the
wrong impression of Britain," said another. Julian Foynes, from Isleworth, west
London, said: "I am outraged by the bias. An audience three to one against
America."

Joe Jonkler, of Petersfield, Hants, said: "It was disgusting . . . a terrible
insult not only to America but also hundreds of British families who have lost
relatives."

Brian Hirst, from Bromley, Kent, said: "Out of perhaps 10 speakers eight were
allowed to say it was America's fault. One chap who spoke out at the end in
support of America was booed by the rest of the audience. Everyone accepts there
is bias at the BBC but this was beyond the pale."

A BBC spokesman admitted that the corporation had received "quite a few calls"
about the programme. He said that all points of view had been aired.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              179 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 14, 2001

Nations' silence in honour of New York dead Sub - Head:

SECTION: Pg.1

LENGTH: 308 words


THE Queen was today due to lead the nation in mourning for the thousands of
people killed in terrorist attacks on America.

She was due to join the Duke of Edinburgh and Prince Charles at a special
service of remembrance at St Paul's Cathedral.

They were to be accompanied by Prime Minister Tony Blair, US ambassador William
Farish and representatives of foreign embassies in Britain.

And across Europe, millions were also expected to observe a three-minute silence
at 11am to remember those who perished in this week's horror in America.

The tribute comes as an emotional President Bush declared that terrorism was
'now the focus of my administration' and vowed to hunt down the terrorists
responsible for the attacks.

American agents have swooped on addresses in Europe and America in an attempt to
find further clues as to who carried out the attacks. Some 4,000 FBI agents and
2,000 forensic scientists have been enlisted to help create an audit trail
leading back to the perpetrators.

Mr Blair is also due to address a hastily convened Parliament this afternoon.

But as people across the world remembered the dead today, it was still unclear
who was responsible.

Up to 5,000 people are now believed to have died, including as many as 500
Britons.

Flags in the Hoe are being flown at half mast, while 30,000 people were to stand
in silence at the Royal Cornwall Show in Wadebridge after a two-gun signal by
the King's Troop, Royal Artillery.

The American-owned Wrigley's firm, at Estover, and DML at Devonport were among
those whose staff paused to remember the victims.

Traffic on the Tamar Bridge was stopped and the Torpoint Ferry was also
suspended for the three-minute period.

The service in London at St Paul's was to begin with the US national anthem and
a welcome by the Dean of St Paul's, the Very Rev John Moses.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TRIBUTE: Plymouth Lord Mayor David Viney and Lady Mayoress Pauline
throw a flower into the sea from Mayflower Steps Picture Paul Slater EM62933

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              180 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 14, 2001

Show of support from Britain

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.2

LENGTH: 347 words


PLYMOUTH soldiers took centre stage in an emotional changing of the guard
ceremony at Buckingham Palace, in honour of the thousands who died in Tuesday's
attacks.

American tourists were among the 3,000-strong crowd who watched the service, in
which the Coldstream Guards were replaced by members of the 1st Battalion
Devonshire and Dorset Regiment.

Many were moved to tears when a military band played the US national anthem.

The Duke of York, representing the Queen, and US ambassador, William Farish,
stood solemnly side -by-side, staring grim-faced ahead as the anthem gave way to
a two-minute silence.

Among the crowd were many US tourists on holiday in Britain, some unable to
return home because of the flight ban.

Jenny Lee, 31, of San Francisco, saluted and waved a cardboard flag she had made
herself.

She said: "I was really touched that the Queen has done this. Even though I'm so
many miles from home, I feel that the UK is really with us on this one."

In Plymouth tonight, Christ Church, at Estover, is holding a half-hour service
of prayer and reflection on the terrorist attacks in the United States.

The Rev John Luscombe will be conducting the service at 7pm.

Meanwhile, people in Plymouth wanting to make donations to help victims of the
US terrorist attacks are being directed to the British Red Cross and Salvation
Army. The two leading charities are heading the official humanitarian effort for
victims and relatives.

Bosses at the charities Plymouth branches and headquarters in Devon say they
have already begun to receive calls.

Cash donations can be made at staffed British Red Cross branches, including the
branch at Crownhill.

Credit card donations can be made to the Red Cross by calling 020 7201 5038 or
cheques can be sent to The British Red Cross Society Devon branch, Ermen House,
Butts Road, Heavitree, Exeter, with cheques marked on the back American
Emergency Response.

Donations to the Salvation Army can be sent to American Support Appeal, The
Salvation Army, Freepost KE3466, London SE1 6BP, or by calling 0800 028 7744.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              181 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 14, 2001

NEWS: 999

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.3

LENGTH: 248 words


First flight is due in HEATHROW: The first transatlantic flight from the US
since the terror attacks on New York and Washington was due to land in Britain
today. An American Airlines flight from Chicago was expected at Heathrow at
about 8.30am, and it was hoped a limited number of flights would leave Heathrow
and Gatwick for the US throughout the day. Ban is lifted LONDON: The UK
Government announced its ban on low flying over central London would end at
midnight tomorrow. The Government also announced the Docklands-based London City
Airport, shut since Tuesday, would reopen today. No knives GREAT BRITAIN: UK
airports operator BAA issued urgent travel advice to passengers planning to
depart from any British airport not to pack sharp items in hand luggage,
including knives, scissors, nail files, razor blades and knitting needles.
Passengers were advised to call reservations on 08457 789789. Turkish aid
TURKEY: Turkish search and rescue group AKUT assembled a 12-man team to assist
US relief efforts, its chairman Nasuh Mahruki said. The US donated millions of
dollars in aid to Turkey after deadly earthquakes in 1999 killed at least 18,000
people.Several US airports opened to American-owned airlines' non-stop
international flights.

British Airways said it would resume some services from the UK to Canada today,
although flights to the US and Islamabad in Pakistan remain suspended.

Virgin Atlantic said it would not operate flights to the US or Canada today.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              182 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 14, 2001

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; THE WHARF CALLS HALT TO SPECULATIVE
BUILDING

BYLINE: BY AMANDA RICHARDS

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 394 words


CANARY WHARF, owner of the tallest building in Britain, is to shelve the
construction of speculative developments until economic conditions improve.

Chief executive George Iacobescu said yesterday that the company's policy had
previously been to have one speculative building always in progress but it had
stopped this strategy until the "market outlook becomes clearer".

Canary Wharf would finish the construction of a 600,000 sq ft building on Heron
Quays which is scheduled for completion in 2003 but would not build any more
after that, he said. The decision was taken a month ago and was not linked to
Tuesday's carnage.

The terrorist attacks on New York would have short-term repercussions for the
company but the wider issue was the "slowdown of the economy and the financial
services sector which will inevitably have an effect on the London office market
in general", he said.

Meanwhile, the attacks have resulted in tighter security at the Canary Wharf
Tower in London's Docklands. The Canary Wharf complex accommodates 41,000 office
workers and a number of large US and UK financial institutions have a presence
there.

After the horror on Tuesday some Canary Wharf tenants temporarily moved their
staff out, although the building was not officially evacuated. Asked if the
threat of terrorist action on tall buildings could drive tenants and prospective
clients away, a spokeswoman said there was no evidence to suggest that the
long-term behaviour of occupiers would alter.

"We have always had to live with the threat of terrorist attacks in London, "
she said. "The building complex has hundreds of security staff while tenants
also have their own security measures."

She was speaking as the firm reported profits for the year to June 30 of GBP
42.5million, down from GBP 54.1million a year ago. These were in line with
estimates ranging from GBP 38million to GBP 50million.

In the long term Canary Wharf plans to apply for planning permission to enlarge
the site by almost 50 per cent. The company - which is to return GBP 2 billion
to shareholders over the next four years - started yesterday with a GBP
450million share-buyback programme.

The shares closed 5p down at 505p.

Property analyst Hugh Rich at ING Barings said: "Normally, at GBP 5, it would be
a buy. But the horror of the US has changed things."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              183 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 14, 2001

GOLF: RYDER CUP FUTURE CLOUDED IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS IN US; TEAMS WEIGH UP
WHETHER TO PLAY

BYLINE: MARK FLEMING IN ST LOUIS

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 87

LENGTH: 581 words


THE organisers of the Ryder Cup were locked in crisis talks last night to try
and end the uncertainty over whether the Ryder Cup will take place.

Amid calls for decisive action, the Professional Golfers Associations of America
and Britain held a transAtlantic conference call to try and decide whether to
cancel the event in the aftermath of the terrorist attack on the USA.

The British are still hoping the match can go ahead and have given their
American counterparts as much time as they need to decide whether to come over
to The Belfry in a fortnight or not.

The members of the US PGA are waiting for guidance from President George W. Bush
before deciding what to do. There is a mood of defiance growing among some of
the players who believe they must show the world that America will not bow to
terrorists.

But there is also much uncertainty over whether their government will have
retaliated by then, which would hugely increase the mounting security concerns.
The Europeans last night repeated their welcome to the American team.

Sandy Jones, chief executive of the British PGA, said: "We urge the match to
continue at this time. We are talking to the Americans and they are waiting for
a lead from their government.

"Our invitation remains open for the US team to come and play the match.

Everything is in position for staging the event. There are two ways of looking
at it. Either you can play the match to show that life goes on or we can cancel
it out of respect. Either way wewill be both supported and criticised in certain
quarters."

The issue has been further complicated as many of European Tour officials,
including chief executive Ken Schofield, are stranded in Canada after their
flights to the USA were diverted on Tuesday.

Players on both sides have vowed to back whatever decision is made by the
authorities.

Mark Calcavecchia is one player who initially said he thought the Ryder Cup
should be postponed or even completely cancelled but he now believes there are
valid reasons for it to take place as planned.

The veteran American said: "Things have to move on, if not you are just giving
in. If you would have asked me yesterday I would have said not to play but time
heals all wounds and maybe next week I will feel differently.

"If they decide to play it, then I will be there. But if they don't, then I will
support that decision as well."

Colin Montgomerie believes staging the cup would send out a strong message of
unity between allies.

Europe's leading player said the value of staging the event could be immense in
the light of the atrocities carried out in New York and Washington.

Montgomerie said: "We can use this to be beneficial in a way, to say this is
what the Ryder Cup should be and should have been every time we have played,
that is, uniting us through sport.

"This is what should happen and hopefully will happen. It is for our PGAs and
Tours to get together and see if it is feasible. Let's hope we can use it as a
positive message because if the Ryder Cup is cancelled or postponed, you are
only allowing these terrorists to win.

"You cannot allow these type of people to win. That is why I hope the Ryder Cup
does take place to show that we are continuing. It would have a very different
feel to it."

Security issues however could decide the matter. The American government have
promised to strike back hard at the terrorists and that could force the issue
once and for all.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              184 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 14, 2001

AGENCY: AGENCY

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.6

LENGTH: 125 words


First US-UK flight lands

PASSENGERS on the first transatlantic flight from the US since the terror
attacks on New York and Washington applauded as it took off.

The American Airlines service from Chicago arrived at Heathrow just after 8am.

Passengers said security had been visibly stepped up and spoke of their relief
to arrive in the UK.

Most looked composed and relaxed on arrival, although the emotion soon became
evident when they spoke about the effects of the terrorist atrocities.

Robert Buhrow, a real estate salesman from Chicago who came to Britain for a
holiday, said: "People clapped when we finally took off. It's a good feeling to
be here. It's a miracle we're here considering the way the flights have been
disrupted.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              185 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 2001

Attack on America: Britain's worst disasters

BYLINE: Jeevan Vasagar

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 280 words


The likely British death toll from the terrorist attacks in America is expected
to dwarf the number of deaths in Northern Ireland's worst atrocity.

Twenty-nine people, including four children and an 18-month-old baby, were
killed in Omagh, Co Tyrone, in August 1998 when a Real IRA bomb caused carnage
among Saturday afternoon shoppers.

But that was not Britain's worst terrorist atrocity; the Lockerbie bombing was.
Forty-four British nationals died in the destruction of Pan Am flight 103 in
1988, including 11 on the ground.

Previous large-scale disasters have imprinted themselves on the national psyche.

In 1989, 96 football fans were crushed to death at the Liverpool-Nottingham
Forest FA Cup semi-final at Hillsborough, Sheffield.

Three years before that, 193 people were killed when the Herald of Free
Enterprise ferry capsized off Zeebrugge, while in 1988, 167 were killed in a
fire on the Piper Alpha oil platform off the coast of Scotland.

In 1966, a slag heap collapsed and engulfed a primary school in Aberfan, killing
144 people, including 116 children.

The sinking of the Titanic was a disaster on an enormous scale: 1,517 drowned
when the liner sank, though not all were British.

However, the total scale of the World Trade Centre attacks compares more closely
to wartime horrors than any peacetime tragedy.

In 1940, 4,500 British servicemen drowned when the Lancastria troop ship was
sunk by German dive-bombers off the coast of France.

At least 40,000 were killed during the blitz, including 1,200 in Coventry and
20,000 in London.

Twenty thousand British soldiers were killed on the first day of the Somme in
1916.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              186 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 14, 2001

Attack on America: Air miles but no practice for Henman

BYLINE: Richard Jago

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 36

LENGTH: 895 words


Tim Henman will have to complete an exhausting journey via the world's disrupted
airways to arrive today at Guayaquil, the venue of Great Britain's Davis Cup tie
next week against Ecuador.

His first delay happened on Tuesday when the terrorist attacks on America
occurred while Henman was travelling to join the British squad's training camp
in Florida. Even though his flight was then diverted a thousand miles off course
to Bermuda, he had hoped to conclude his journey the next day.

The British No1 had been told either to make his way to Miami to join his
team-mates or to go straight to Guayaquil.

Although this short-cut had its disconcerting aspects, because it meant missing
out on several days' important preparation with Greg Rusedski, Martin Lee and
Barry Cowan, at least it would have saved energy.

However, hurricane warnings kept Henman in Bermuda for two days, then persuaded
him that he would be better off coming home and starting again.

Henman, therefore, flew back to London yesterday afternoon and will have to fly
out again early this morning. Even this journey will not be trouble-free. Henman
will be obliged to follow a winding route, first to Madrid where he will change
flights before making his third transatlantic crossing in four days. He may also
have to land at Quito in Ecuador before going on to Guayaquil, where he should
arrive at about midnight local time (six hours behind British Summer Time).

"It's unfortunate that he's missed the camp," said the British captain Roger
Taylor, something of an understatement given the planning that has gone into his
squad's preparation. "It's out of our control. But at least we will all have the
full transition period on the clay in Ecuador. We will get the full six days we
had planned to get in Guayaquil before the tie starts (next Friday)."

The upside of this is that Taylor no longer envisages any problems for his
players and himself in flying out of Miami and getting to Guayaquil tomorrow.
But the downside is considerable. Henman will have had no acclimatisation to
heat and humidity, the building of team spirit has been truncated and Henman's
body clock may not have adjusted to South American time.

Even more infuriating, Henman had originally planned to remain in America after
the US Open and go straight to Miami. But his unexpectedly early defeat in the
first week to the Belgian Xavier Malisse, plotted by his friend and former coach
David Felgate, persuaded him there was time, after five weeks on the road, to go
home and relax. By the time he reaches his intended destination relaxation is
exactly what he will be lacking.


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              187 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                               September 14, 2001

'Don't label us all with same beliefs'.

BYLINE: Charles Heslett (author email charles.heslett@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 348 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley



The one question dominating the mind of every American, and indeed most of the
world, is who?

But it seems that, even before it is known who committed these acts, the world
is looking to blame a fundamentalist Islamic group for the New York and
Washington attacks.

Already the Muslim Council of Britain has reported attacks on Muslims and there
are similar tales in the USA.

And while Muslims across the world share the pain of the victims of Tuesday's
attacks, some in Bradford feel the American government needs to reassess its
foreign policy in the Middle East.

They also argue that again they are being labelled as the culprits of the
terrorist attack with little evidence to back it up - as happened, wrongly, in
Oklahoma.

Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council for Mosques, said: "If you look at
Oklahoma, America immediately tried to point to the Muslim countries and it
turned out not to be the case.

"Again America is seeing Muslim people as the enemy and what Muslims are saying
now is that America has double standards.

"When you have a superior power you are in a place of domination and must apply
the same standards to your friends and enemies.

"We have nothing but sympathy for the American people, but the American
government has to look at its foreign policy and why some people in some
countries feel the way they do."

Muslims of all generations have spent the last few days saying prayers for
people in the USA in their mosques.

And their sadness is real.

Sajid Mahmood, 28, a member of the Mohammadi Mosque in Camden Terrace in
Manningham, said: "I have not met one person who has not felt sorrow for the
people in America.

"Whatever the feelings of people in the Middle East, it's the human lives that
count. Whoever has a bone to pick with America they have ruined the lives of
thousands of people and that is not right.

"Everyone has their own feelings but the lives of Bradford Muslims are very
different from those in the Middle East and we should not all be labelled with
the same beliefs."


LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              188 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 14, 2001

Heartfelt sympathy for terror victims

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.10

LENGTH: 703 words


NO good can ever come out of a terrorist attack in which thousands of people
have perished. But it is right to look for the positive among all the desperate
suffering that Tuesday's outrageous attack on the United States has caused.

And the sympathetic world-wide response to America's blackest day is the one
shining light of hope in all the darkness that this shocking act of evil has
created.

Today, at 11am, people will fall silent all across Britain in honour of those
who lost their lives in Washington, in New York and in the plane that came down
south of Pittsburgh.

The fact that it now seems likely up to 500 Britons died in the carnage at the
World Trade Centre has, inevitably, sharpened British emotions.  But the need to
do something to mark all these innocent lives lost is a human response which has
little to do with nationality.

That's why it is right our nation will fall silent today and why the Western
Morning News is certain that this opportunity to pause and reflect on the lives
lost will be widely and diligently marked here in the Westcountry.

The need to make a symbolic gesture to show sympathy for the grieving and
respect for those that have died is not a new phenomenon in Britain, especially
after a tragedy that touches so many.  We saw it most spontaneously after the
death of Princess Diana, when the outpouring of grief and the way that grief
manifested itself came as a surprise to many.

The British response to the terrorist atrocities in the United States has been
different, but no less sincere, heartfelt or genuine.  Candles have been lit,
wreaths placed outside the US embassy in London and books of condolence signed.

Today, with the three-minute silence, another opportunity for people to pay
their respects and reflect on the enormity of what has happened will be
provided.  And over the coming days church services will be held specifically
for the dead, the injured and the grieving.  All, we are sure, will be well
supported.

Today, Her Majesty the Queen, the Duke of Edinburgh and Prince Charles will
attend a service of remembrance at St Paul's Cathedral.  Around 2,400 will be
there and many more will have the service relayed to them or will watch on
television and listen on the radio.

People are showing their concern in other ways too, donating to funds set up for
the victims of the attack and offering whatever help they can to the American
people.

But perhaps the greatest help that has been given to America in the aftermath of
this disaster has been in the almost unquestioning support that has been shown
by British people, from the Prime Minister down, ever since the aircraft struck
the twin towers of New York.

One caller to a radio phone-in yesterday spoke for many when she said the fact
that a proportion of the victims of this disaster are likely to be British was
less important than the sheer horror at what had happened to so many innocent
people.

And that thought has been reflected in the world-wide condemnation of the
atrocity and the often-repeated statement that this was an attack, not just on
the United States, but on the entire free world.

There will be many repercussions from this attack.  The economic impact is
already being felt. The military impact will surely come, once the United States
knows which nation is harbouring the terrorists that perpetrated it. The extra
security measures that will have to be put in place are going to have a marked
effect on all our lives whenever we travel.

But, for now and especially today, we should put time aside to remember those
that have died, show sympathy to their loved ones who grieve and demonstrate
solidarity with the American people, who have suffered so appallingly and whose
nation will surely be a changed place as a result of what has happened.

The death toll is still unknown, but the city of New York yesterday put in an
ominous order for 30,000 body bags.  Stories of hope continue to punctuate the
gloom, but over the coming days a great many families are going to have to cope
with the worst possible news about their loved ones.

Let's show them, today at 11am, that we understand at least part of what they
are going through and that we care.

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              189 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

BRITISH TROOPS IN RAPID-REACTION TEST

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 222 words


THOUSANDS of British troops are heading to the Gulf just as the United States
decides whether to launch retaliatory strikes against those responsible for the
terrorist attacks.

More than 20,000 servicemen and women are due to take part in a military
exercise in Oman designed to test Britain's rapid-reaction capabilities. The
task force comprises 17 ships led by HMS Illustrious, a Royal Marine commando
brigade and an armoured brigade.

Britain is also estimated to have 1,200 military personnel in the Gulf area
involved in operations which include patrolling the no-fly zones over Iraq.

The exercise in Oman has been planned for months and, while not connected to the
terrorist attacks in America, it means the troops are conveniently deployed as
America and its allies formulate a response to the devastating events of
Tuesday.

Defence experts say it would be easy for American troops to bolster their
military presence in the Middle East. It is believed America currently has two
aircraft carriers in the Middle East which between them carry 150 strike
aircraft on board. There are also four or five frigates stationed in Gulf waters
with Cruise missiles on board.

Professor John Baylis, a strategic defence expert, said the US and Britain had
maintained a presence in the region since the Gulf War.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              190 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 14, 2001, Friday

WHATEVER WE DO, WE CAN'T STAND BACK;
 LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 290 words


THE full horror of the terrorist attack on the United States continues to unfold
and every hour brings a new tale of personal tragedy.

News that more than a dozen people had been pulled alive from the rubble
yesterday came as New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani confirmed that nearly 5,000
people were still missing, presumed dead, under the rubble of the former World
Trade Centre and that 30,000 more body bags would be needed.

It could be several more weeks before the final death toll is known.

Nato's decision that an attack on America is an attack on all Western
democracies means that Wales now stands shoulder to shoulder with the American
people in the fight against international terrorism.

How President Bush will lead this fight is still unclear, but what is certain is
that Britain and other Nato countries will almost certainly be involved.

Concerns have been raised about exposing Britain to increased terrorist risk
should it decide to involve itself in American retaliation and this will
undoubtedly be high on the political agenda later today when British politicians
return for an emergency session of Parliament.

Britain's views clearly count in America.

The nation now needs to decide what is morally right, whether to support the
President in what he has described as the first war of the 21st Century or to
spare thousands more civilian lives by rising above the horror inflicted by this
enemy and instead infiltrating and systematically breaking down the forces of
terrorism.

Whichever way is chosen it seems that terrorism has already won the bloodiest
battle, but what is certain is that not one of us can stand back and watch it
continue to destroy the foundations of democracy.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              191 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

LONDON MARKET

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 342 words


WEDNESDAY.

SHARES endured a rollercoaster session as the market struggled to come to terms
with uncertainty caused by the terrorist attacks in the US.

Fears are mounting about the possible fall-out from the blow to the world's
financial centre, with predictions that the US will slide into recession.

Analysts fear a mass sell-off when trading on the other side of the Atlantic
eventually resumes could spark panic elsewhere.

Hopes of more interest rate cuts, and the caution displayed by some major City
institutions, however helped to bolster the market.

After the first ten minutes of trading, more than pounds 21bn had been wiped off
the value of Britain's leading companies.

But as institutions decided to hold onto their shares, the FTSE 100 began to
stabilise and then soar ahead.

Top spot went to troubled telecom group Marconi. The group jumped 3 3 4p, to 35
3 4p - ironically on the day its demotion into the FTSE 250 was confirmed.

Alongside Marconi were mobile phone giant Vodafone, up 10p to 134p, and
pharmaceutical group GlaxoSmithKline, up 174p to pounds 18.00.

Other defensive retailers made up ground, particularly retail stocks, with
Britain's biggest grocer Tesco posting a 16 3 4p jump to 246 3 4p.

Rival supermarket chain Sainsbury's climbed 28p to 367 1 4p, while Morrisons
jumped 13p to 200p and Safeway ended up 21 3 4p higher at 335p.

Banks were also having a positive day on the market, with Abbey National up 69p
at 985p, HBOS, 37p ahead at 839p and Lloyds TSB up 26 1 2p to 651 1 2p.

Other banks moving into positive territory were Royal Bank of Scotland, up 10p
at pounds 14.75 and Barclays, up 29p to pounds 17.80.

Of those heading south, oil giants BP and Shell fell back despite speculation
over oil price rises, which had fuelled their gains yesterday.

BP dropped 28 1 2p to 560p and Shell slipped 31p to 512p.

FTSE-100 THE index closed up 136.1 at 4882.1.

Wall St THE New York markets were closed for the second day in a row but are
expected to reopen today.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              192 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

TERRORIST ATTACKS AMERICA: POUNDS 150BN BILL FOR THE DEVASTATION;
  ATTACKS COULD SPARK RECESSION

BYLINE: Steve Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 328 words


THE terrorist attacks on America have cost pounds 150billion - and counting.

British business is braced for its share of massive global insurance claims.

And the cost of two days' lost trade as Wall Street shut down will badly damage
the UK stock exchange.

Now finance experts fear the atrocities could push us into recession.

Yesterday, Martin Hayward, of the Henley Centre research group, warned that the
damage to our travel industry, insurance companies and consumer confidence may
push the UK economy over the edge.

And with recession looming, the terrorist outrages could be the last nail in the
coffin of the world economy. Hayward said: "There were pictures yesterday of
supermarkets in the States being cleared - panic has really hit there and a
siege mentality has developed.

"Although the UK is not at that stage, confidence has been badly damaged. The
economy is not in recession yet but this may be the straw that broke the camel's
back.

"We only have to look at the link between our stock exchange and Wall Street to
understand that we are not some kind of separate entity. This could cost our
economy billions of pounds."

Hayward said even a five per cent fall in consumer spending can cause a
recession. He added: "The basic fact is, if you are happy and smiling, you are
more likely to spend money.

"It sounds bizarre that what I might spend in the High Street on a Saturday
morning is affected by a terrorist attack in New York.

"But all you need to do is look at the travel industry. That suffered straight
away yesterday because people are going to be less happy to get on
aeroplanes."Americans have already shown how they react. The BSE issue kept them
out of Britain a few years ago - so an incident like this is bound to stop them
from flying."

The insurance industry is also facing meltdown. The International Underwriting
Association said the impact of the atrocities would be felt around the world.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              193 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

MPs are recalled as Blair backs US reprisals

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 783 words

PARLIAMENT will be recalled tomorrow to debate the terrorist attacks in the US,
the Prime Minister announced yesterday.

Tony Blair will make a statement to Parliament and Jack Straw, the Foreign
Secretary, will open a full debate. It will be the first emergency recall of
Parliament since the Omagh bombing in 1998.

The Commons debate will give Mr Blair an opportunity to spell out the
anti-terrorist measures ministers are putting in place.

He is expected to indicate how far Britain will go in supporting American
reprisals against the perpetrators of the attacks on the World Trade Centre and
the Pentagon - and judge the extent of parliamentary backing for such action.

Mr Blair is keen to see a co-ordinated international response to the outrages
and has already spoken to the leaders of Germany, France, Russia and Italy. He
believes the crisis will be an important test of the unity of EU countries in
facing the terrorist threat.

Mr Blair was careful not to rule out military action by British forces.
Unqualified support for the US could strain relations with other European allies
as well as make Britain a target for further terrorist attacks. He is aware of
political concern in Britain that any American response should be proportionate
and well-thought out. A number of Labour MPs are worried that a misguided
response against the wrong target could inflame an already tense situation and
lead to further terrorist attacks.

Mr Blair had a 20-minute telephone conversation yesterday with President Bush in
which he promised British support for America's efforts to track down and punish
those responsible for the attacks.

But he is understood to have pressed for a well thought-out response aimed at
preventing further attacks rather than immediate reprisals. Shortly beforehand
he had told a press conference that Britain would stand "shoulder to shoulder"
with America. He said: "We all agreed that this is an attack not only on America
but on the free and democratic world." The international community had to
consider where such terror groups were, how they operated, how they were
financed and supported and how they could be stopped.

Mr Blair said: "People of all faiths and all democratic political persuasions
have a common cause: to identify this machinery of terror and to dismantle it as
swiftly as possible."

Mr Blair declined to speculate on what sort of help Britain might offer the US.
"But be under no doubt at all, we stand with the USA in this matter," he said.

Officials confirmed that British intelligence agencies are co-operating with
their American counterparts and sharing the available information on possible
suspects.

Mr Blair indicated that he believed Muslim fundamentalists were involved, but
refused to be drawn on whether Britain - like America - suspected that Osama bin
Laden was behind the attacks.

However, he said that possibility was under close consideration by British
intelligence agencies as well as others around the world, in particular those in
the USA.

In what was seen as an attempt to prevent any backlash against Muslims in
Britain, he welcomed a strong statement of condemnation from the British Muslim
Council.

Mr Blair said: "The vast majority of Muslims are decent, upright people who
share our horror at what has happened. This is not a situation in which we
should see this as a cause between the Muslim faith and the world, but between
terrorism and the rest of the world, including the Muslim faith.

"The world now knows the full evil and capability of international terrorism
which menaces the whole of the democratic world. To commit acts of this nature
requires a fanaticism and wickedness that is beyond our normal contemplation."

Mr Blair said the security arrangements put in place in the immediate aftermath
of the attacks on New York and Washington on Tuesday afternoon would continue at
least for the rest of the day as a "precautionary measure".

But most of the City and businesses throughout the country were functioning
normally.

The Cabinet's Civil Contingencies committee, chaired by Mr Blair, met again last
night - the third meeting in 24 hours. Ministers, including David Blunkett, the
Home Secretary, Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary, and Gordon Brown, the
Chancellor, were updated on the latest intelligence reports. There will be an
emergency meeting of the Cabinet this morning.

One item high on the agenda will be stepping up domestic security as well as new
moves to identify and possibly outlaw extremist groups using Britain as a base.

Mr Blair did not rule out speculation that the Government could consider
introducing identity cards.
[PS]News: [ES]

America at war:

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              194 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 13, 2001

SAS ON ALERT AMID FEARS THAT THE UK COULD BE NEXT TARGET

BYLINE: BY JOHN TWOMEY AND MARK BLACKLOCK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 482 words


A HUGE security operation swung into action yesterday as Britain braced itself
for the threat of terrorist attack like never before.

All government buildings are on condition "amber", the highest state of
readiness, and two SAS units are on full alert close to the capital.

Former Anti-Terrorist Branch detectives were recalled as part of Britain's
response to the US terror attacks, and 1,000 Metropolitan Police officers
returned to duty from training courses or leave.

One Scotland Yard officer said: "We are preparing for the worst case scenario
rather than in response to specific intelligence about attacks on UK targets."

The SAS troopers were moved closer to London from their headquarters at Hereford
in case the terrorists behind Tuesday's outrages switch tactics and launch
bombing missions in or around the capital. Sources said senior Anti-Terrorist
Branch officers had received calls from recentlyretired detectives who
volunteered to return.

The head of the branch - codenamed SO13 - Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry
attended an emergency summit in the City of London with leading businessmen and
officials.

A contingency plan is already in place to keep the financial centre "alive" if
the City comes under terrorist attacks.

The plan was formulated in the aftermath of the IRA lorry bomb attack on Canary
Wharf in 1996.

Meanwhile, the streets around Trafalgar Square, usually bustling with government
workers and tourists, were unusually quiet. A shadow also hung over the City
where workers in financial markets were offered counselling over the loss of
colleagues in New York.

The Stock Exchange held a minute's silence, and in Brighton the TUC Conference
ended a day early as a mark of respect.

There were some reports of isolated attacks on Muslims and Scotland Yard was
planning a meeting with community leaders to help ease any tensions.

The "no-fly zone" above central London continued to be enforced - with a claim
that the RAF would shoot aircraft straying into it.

A Ministry of Defence spokesman confirmed RAF jets would "intercept" any
aircraft straying into the air exclusion zone. "There would then be various
options open to us, but for obvious reasons we cannot go into that, " he said.

Thousands of passengers trying to get to the United States were stranded. At
Heathrow, 140 flights to and from the United States were cancelled, with a
further 50 called off at Gatwick. Similar measures were taken at other UK
airports - with 13 cancelled at Manchester. British Airways also called off
flights to Islamabad and to Tel Aviv.

The flight restriction over London affected an estimated 50,000 passengers. Many
were put up at hotels, while others slept at the airports. The no-fly zone
caused airlines to alter their flight paths and private flights must have
special permission to enter British airspace.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              195 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 2001

US rallies the west for attack on Afghanistan: Nato drawing up plans for
invasion: Blair consulted by Bush: Boston arrests

BYLINE: Julian Borger in Washington, Richard Norton-Taylor and Ewen MacAskill in
London and Ian Black in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 876 words


The US is opening consultations with Britain and its other western allies for a
crusade against Islamic terrorism in the wake of Tuesday's devastating terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington in which thousands of people died.

For the first time in its 52-year history, Nato is poised to invoke Article 5 of
its charter, which declares an attack on any member state would be considered an
attack on all, implying the possibility of automatic European support for US
retaliation.

Nato is drawing up an emergency plan for a massive attack on Afghanistan if
evidence - as is widely anticipated - emerges that the wanted Saudi terrorist
now in hiding in Afghanistan, Osama bin Laden, and his network were responsible
for the attacks.

Nato's historic announcement came amid reports that the intended targets for one
of the hijacked aircraft were the White House and President Bush's personal
aircraft, Air Force One.

"We had specific credible information that both were intended terrorist targets,
and that the plane that hit the Pentagon may have been headed for the White
House," said Sean McCormack, spokesman for President Bush's National Security
Council.

The ruling Taliban government in Afghanistan will now come under intensive
pressure from Washington to hand over Bin Laden or face the consequences. The
initial Taliban reaction was to refuse to extradite him.

Under contingency plans being prepared, an assault would involve tens of
thousands of ground troops, equivalent to the scale of the force deployed in
Kosovo, Nato defence sources said last night.

Such a taskforce, which may take weeks to assemble, would not preclude an
initial US cruise missile attack, they said.

President Bush warned Americans that they faced a long, hard struggle against
their terrorist enemies, and pointed towards an international operation.

"The American people need to know we're facing a different enemy than we have
ever faced. We will rally the world. We will be patient. We'll be focused, and
we will be steadfast in our determination. This battle will take time and
resolve, but make no mistake about it, we will win."

Any multinational offensive would almost certainly involve British forces, many
of whom are preparing for a huge exercise in Oman. It would also require the
active support of Russia, the sources added. Nato countries appear confident of
securing it.

Mr Bush spoke to Mr Blair during the day and to other European leaders, and
indicated there would be no knee-jerk reaction. Mr Blair and Mr Bush concurred
that the vital thing was to move forward together in a united action.

Intelligence sources - ranging from the CIA to MI6, the French, Germans,
Russians and Israelis - were unanimous yesterday in pointing the finger of
suspicion at supporters of Osama bin Laden. They stressed, however, that they
did not yet have the proof.

As momentum gathered behind the idea of an international mission, in the US
teams of heavily armed FBI agents detained several people for questioning after
raids in Boston and Florida on the trail left behind by the hijackers
responsible for Tuesday's attack.

Justice department spokesmen said no arrests had been made, but said an unknown
number of "material witnesses" had been taken into custody to help the FBI with
the inquiry.

Some of the detainees were seized from a luxury hotel in central Boston where
some of the hijackers are believed to have stayed the night before the attacks.
At least one more person was taken into custody in Florida, where four
terrorists involved in the hijackings are thought to have lived in the months
before the attack.

Police in Providence, Rhode Island, were also reported to have stopped and
searched a train heading south from Boston, which was thought possibly to be
carrying suspects who eluded the FBI net.

In Florida, the investigation centred on a flying school in Venice on the Gulf
coast. The FBI traced a driving licence of one of the suspected hijackers,
Mohamed Atta, to the home of a Florida man, Charlie Voss, who said that two
foreigners had stayed with him in July 2000 while they took a course in flying
small planes.

In abandoned cars found at Boston airport, the starting point of the two flights
which crashed into the World Trade Centre, investigators found a flight
instruction video, Arabic aviation manuals and a Koran.

Police and FBI agents also raided houses in Coral Springs and Davie, near Fort
Lauderdale, where Mohamed Atta and some of the other suspected hijackers are
thought to have stayed.

The manager of a Coral Springs restaurant, Tony Amos, said he had identified one
of the men in pictures shown to him by the FBI. He had eaten at the restaurant
last week, Mr Amos said.

In the financial markets an uneasy calm returned by last night, but only after
an orchestrated action by the leading central bankers to pump billions of
dollars into the system. The Federal Reserve is now widely expected to make an
instant cut in interest rates in an attempt to head off recession in America.

In London, the FTSE 100 index regained about half of the fall registered on
Tuesday, although traders are still braced for wild swings in prices over coming
days.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              196 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 13, 2001

Attack on America: Aviation: Airlines facing flights upheaval and job losses:
Fare rises and more delays likely

BYLINE: Keith Harper Transport editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 597 words


Britain's aviation industry last night faced an unprecedented upheaval,
involving tighter security, the possibility of thousands of job losses, and
increased fares.

At the same time, the government warned that any plane venturing into airspace
over central London was likely to be shot down. All aircraft movements over the
heart of the capital are banned until further notice. The flight path into
Heathrow airport passes close to the Canary Wharf skyscraper and along the
Thames over parliament.

A government source confirmed that the military was now "effectively guarding
London and we must expect the RAF to shoot down any intruders". Contact between
air traffic controllers and the Ministry of Defence has been tightened.

Phil Butterworth-Hayes, civil aviation editor of Jane's Information Group, said
the terrorist attacks would have a catastrophic effect on world aviation, with a
big fall in passenger numbers. Those who did travel could expect delays from
increased security. Passenger identification would have to become more
sophisticated.

Mr Butterworth-Hayes said the Lockerbie crash more than a decade ago had a
dramatic effect on aviation and Pan-Am went out of business. "But this is far
worse and is the blackest day that aviation has ever had."

Two of Britain's biggest carriers, British Airways and Virgin Atlantic, combined
to help passengers diverted from other flights.

The impact on both will be significant, particularly as they rely for a large
part of their income on the North Atlantic routes, which could remain closed for
the rest of the month.

BA's problems, which have been mounting over the past few months, will result in
an acceleration of job losses. The company has already announced 1,800 to go by
next March and will bring forward thousands more. BA could plunge into the red
next year, and other medium sized airlines will inevitably go out of business.

The government issued a mandatory directive ordering airlines to introduce a
second inspection for all passengers.

A Department of Transport spokesman said: "The order will be imposed
indefinitely. It will cost the airlines more money but they must carry out a
further search of all passengers and hand luggage at airport gates."

Ministers will have urgent discussions with the airlines on other security
checks. Technology could be introduced in which passengers would be identified
by their handprints.

A priority will be how the industry can make aircraft less vulnerable to
terrorist attack.

The view in the industry is that the hijackers must have killed the pilots as
they were approaching New York, leaving the terrorists to steer the doomed
planes into the World Trade Centre.

One industry source said that the airlines and the two big manufacturers Boeing
and Airbus will discuss fixing bulletproof barriers to bulkheads, separating the
pilot's cabin from the rest of the plane.

"It sounds callous, but it is better for some lives to be lost on board an
aircraft if a pilot can land a plane safely," the source said.

Security measures were tightened at Heathrow, with extra police drafted in, and
London's City airport was closed until further notice because of the
government's restrictions over the capital.

Thousands of passengers were stranded at Heathrow overnight, many on BA flights.
BA is believed to be losing pounds 7m a day on the North Atlantic route.

Low cost carrier Ryanair has banned all hand luggage and EasyJet cancelled more
than 30 flights to prevent passengers being subjected to long delays.


LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              197 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

BLAIR UNDER PRESSURE TO KICK-START PUSH FOR EURO

BYLINE: Andrew Grice And Stephen Castle In Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 661 words


TONY BLAIR came under pressure yesterday to open a national debate about the
merits of the single currency, as pro-Europeans warned that his positive
statement about the euro this week did not go far enough.

Chris Patten, a European commissioner, warned that Britain "must get real" about
the single currency, adding: "We cannot continue in a semi- detached state of
mind. If we are part of Europe we must be committed for it to be a success." The
former Conservative Party chairman told Italy's Ap.Biscom agency: "I don't think
that one can continue with leaders being driven from pillar to post. Blair has a
huge majority. People would be surprised if he didn't use it."

Mr Patten said it would be "terrible" if focus groups determined policy and, in
a reference to Conrad Black, proprietor of The Daily and Sunday Telegraph,
asked: "Why should a Canadian publisher define British patriotism?"

Despite the Government's insistence that a decision on the euro would be based
on economic grounds, Mr Patten said the argument was "not about economics but
about politics".

On Tuesday, Mr Blair intended to make his most upbeat comments about the
currency in an address to the TUC conference in Brighton. He scrapped the speech
because of the terrorist attacks in America but still issued the text, which
said he believed the critics predicting the euro would be a disaster were wrong.

Yesterday John Monks, the general secretary of the TUC, called for "an informed
debate" on Britain's membership of the euro. He warned that Britain was unable
to influence decisions about economic reform in Europe because it was "on the
sidelines".

Mr Monks said: "We know that our exclusion means that the euro group is forging
ahead, co-ordinating European economic policies which will have lasting
repercussions for the UK, whether we are members or not."

He said the relative strength of the pound against the euro was causing "severe
problems" for British manufacturing and tourism and the loss of well over
100,000 jobs had been linked to currency volatility since the euro's launch.

Mr Monks said the need for a more secure and competitive alignment of the pound
against the euro was important and urgent. But he admitted that adjusting
exchange rates was no easy process.

"The danger is that it hits stability and could prompt the (Bank of England's)
Monetary Policy Committee to impose interest rate rises and require the
Government to reduce public spending," he said.

The TUC conference ended a day early yesterday when delegates agreed it would be
inappropriate to continue because of the US terrorist attacks. They stood for a
minute's silence before filing quietly out of the Brighton conference centre.

Bill Morris, the outgoing TUC president, said everyone had been "deeply shocked"
by the "appalling act of terrorism". He said the attacks "represent a
fundamental assault on democracy and democratic values throughout the world. The
grief of the American people must be our grief."

Mr Blair is now expected to make an unscheduled speech about Europe so that he
can formally put on the record the words he intended to use at the TUC
conference. Such a speech would be seen as a "softly, softly" attempt to prepare
the ground for a possible referendum on the euro before the next general
election.

However, Mr Blair is likely to disappoint his pro-European critics by shopping
short of launching the "crusade" they want in order to win over a hostile
British public.

Some close allies of the Prime Minister believe public opinion could be turned
round in a six-month referendum campaign. They hope that Mr Blair will trigger
such an effort next year or in 2003 if a "window of opportunity" arises because
there is enough convergence between the British economy and the 13-member
eurozone. But many euro supporters believe the campaign needs to start
immediately if a sceptical public is to be persuaded to vote "yes".

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              198 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 13, 2001

Air passengers stranded;

BYLINE: By Kieran McDaid and James Stinson

SECTION:  Pg. 9

LENGTH: 696 words


TRAVELLERS in America, the UK and around the globe face days of disruption in
the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in Washington and New York.

But in the longer term, the way people travel will probably change forever
because of Tuesday's shocking events.

No trans-Atlantic flights have been allowed into America since Tuesday. Last
night, there was no indication of when flights would be allowed to resume.

The ban has also had knock-on effects on domestic and short-haul European
flights from airports in Britain and Ireland. London City Airport was closed
yesterday to comply with the government-enforced air exclusion zone over the
city.

The cancellation of more than 60 trans-Atlantic flights from Heathrow left
thousands of passengers there unable to travel.

More severe problems were caused by the heightened security measures being
introduced at every airport.

Significant delays and cancellations were commonplace, as airlines struggled to
run to timetables.

A spokeswoman for Belfast International Airport (BIA) said security had been
stepped up after the British Department of Transport, Local Government and the
Regions (DTLR) issued an additional security directive to all airports
yesterday.

The switchboard at BIA had been flooded with calls from anxious passengers
wishing to find out if their flights had been cancelled.

Natalie Raper, BIA's director of marketing, said short delays were expected on
flights to Heathrow.

"Besides delays to Heathrow, all other flights are on time, " she said.

"Due to extra security measures, we would advise passengers to pack as much as
they can into their check-in baggage and keep hand luggage to a minimum."

At Belfast City Airport, flights to London City Airport were cancelled, due to
the closure of airspace over central London.

Belfast City Airport director John Doran said delays could be expected on most
domestic flights.

"With the knock-on effect of the ban on airspace over London, there are delays
of between 10 minutes and one hour expected on most domestic flights, " he said.

Both Belfast airports advised people booked to travel to the US in the near
future to contact their airlines.

In Dublin, Aer Lingus, Delta and Continental Airlines flights to the US have
been cancelled.

All Aer Lingus flights from Dublin to London City Airport have also been
cancelled and passengers are advised to phone 1800 222 221 in the Republic and
0845 3000 747 in Northern Ireland for further details.

An easyJet spokesman warned that the disruption could last for days.

"Passengers across Europe are likely to experience significant delays, due to
the extra time these additional security precautions will take, " he said.

"Additionally, many airports are likely to face congestion, due to congestion
caused by diverting trans-Atlantic traffic."

Tuesday's attack will have farther-reaching consequences for air travellers in
the months and years ahead.

Airline shares have nosedived since Tuesday, amid safety fears and a fall-off in
passenger traffic.

The enhanced security measures are likely to remain in place for some time. The
effect on passenger confidence is an even bigger concern.

During the Gulf War, passenger travel from the States tailed off dramatically.

Tourism chiefs have already expressed concern about incoming visitor business
from America, which is worth around GBP 29 million a year to the Northern
Ireland economy.

Meanwhile, a jumbo jet flying from Heathrow to Seattle was diverted to Belfast
International Airport at the height of the alert on Tuesday.

It landed at around 5pm and its passengers were sent to a number of hotels in
Belfast.

Sean Murray, general manager of the Ramada Hotel in Shaws Bridge, said it had
accommodated 75 to 80 of the travellers.

"The atmosphere was very muted and disbelieving. The American guests and all our
other guests gathered around televisions to try and gain as much information as
they could, " he said.

The travellers flew from Belfast International Airport to Heathrow yesterday
afternoon, where they are expected to stay until US airspace is reopened.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              199 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 13, 2001

Will life ever be the same?

BYLINE: by AWakelin

SECTION: News:999:Terrorism, Pg.10

LENGTH: 853 words


Holiday makers are notified of security arrangements at East Midlands Airport.
Hand luggage is now stacked in the holds of the planes

fear: The terrorist attacks on America have created a security-conscious
climate.  Armed airport police, like these officers on patrol at Heathrow, could
become a more familiar sight

In one horror-packed hour, terrorists changed the mindset of American security.
Adam Wakelin and LEE MARLOW find Leicestershire is also on the alert

It seems on the surface like business as usual, but the shockwaves from the
worst terror attack in history can be felt in Leicestershire, too. At East
Midlands Airport, passenger hand luggage is now stacked in the holds of the
planes that roar skywards.

Only essential documents and medicines are allowed in the cabins - and then in
clear plastic bags.

These are just two steps taken by the airport in the wake of the terrorist
attacks which have rocked America.

Traveller Sharon Cheney, 43, said: "There's a big increase in security, which is
not surprising is it really? It's a bit inconvenient, but I don't mind."

Things are discreetly different today, and they may never be the same again.

You may not immediately realise it, but security has been quietly ratcheted up
in public places across the city and across the county.

Superintendent Bill Holland, who is police commander of Leicester's city centre,
commented: "People in Leicester may not notice any changes in the way that the
police, or other services, operate.

"But there will be careful monitoring of areas that we perceive could be at
risk. We will be paying attention to areas we see as being a potential target."

Doug Owles, the manager of The Shires, said: "We have sent out communications to
tenants regarding increased vigilance and reporting back immediately if they see
anything that seems suspicious.

"No-one can comprehend a terror attack in Leicester. But no-one could comprehend
it in the United States either."

Specific security advice issued by the Home Office and Department of Transport
Local Government and the Regions is being kept under wraps for fear of
compromising the measures being taken.

A spokeswoman for EMA said: "Our security procedures, as with all the other UK
airports, are in line with the DLTR regarding any changes to security
procedures.

"We cannot say any more about what is being done."

A British Transport Police spokesman commented : "We are providing a
high-profile presence at railway stations. It is more for reassurance than
anything else."

The worry is that fanatics behind Tuesday's terror attacks could open a second
front in Britain at any time.

Jerry Hart, lecturer in security management, at Leicester University's Scarman
Centre, said our culture of wary watchfulness should help to protect us, to a
degree at least.

It's a state of mind which has been created by decades of mainland terror
attacks by the IRA and its splinter groups.

Any relaxation in our vigilance has been regularly jolted by bombs like the one
which shook north London in March.

"That is the big difference between us and the US," said Mr Hart. "They have
never had that. They thought that they were safe."

The contrast between airport security in Britain and America is a case in point,
explained the airline security expert.

Both x-ray luggage. Both routinely run portable metal detectors over passengers
to find guns or weapons.

But the difference comes in rigour and style.

American officials see such measures as administrative and procedural, something
which is to be got out of the way as quickly as possible.

"In the UK they are friendly and cordial," said Mr Hart. "But when it comes to
ask questions like 'Who packed your bags?' they are serious.

"Their facial expression changes and they look you in the eye. If you look like
you are avoiding a question , or are suspicious it is reported."

But Tuesday's shocking events across the Atlantic have changed things forever.
Even the more stringent British checks would not have uncovered the carefully
trained knife-carrying terrorists who are reported to have hijacked four flights
in America.

"I regularly travel on planes with my Swiss army knife," said Mr Hart. "No-one
says anything. Ban knives and a well trained hijacker can make a weapon out of
the cutlery.

He went on: "Putting armed security guards on board is no answer. Kill him, and
then you've got yourself a gun.

"Everything has changed. If you had given a risk assessment to an airline about
nicking a plane and flying it into a building on Monday, you would have been
dismissed as a paranoid nutter. Not any more."

Mr Hart says that whoever carried out Tuesday's atrocities have shown themselves
to be incredibly sophisticated.

"It could be that you have Trojan Horse terrorists living perfectly normal lives
here," he said. "They may have been born here. How are you going to stop them
stealing a 747 and flying it into Big Ben?

"The answer is, you can't, if you want to live in a reasonably civilised free
society. All you can do is minimise the risk. We all have a part to play in
that."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              200 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                               September 13, 2001

agony: An injured fireman screams in pain as colleagues battle to free him from
the rubble of the World Trade Centre buildings. Hundreds of emergency staff were
killed in the outrage

BYLINE: by RBettsworth

SECTION: News:999:Disasters, Pg.1

LENGTH: 411 words


DEATH TOLL: NEW YORK MAYOR CONFIRMS 6,000 BODY BAGS ARE ON THE WAY

20,000 killed

Hundreds of Britons feared dead after US terror attacks

BY PA NEWS STAFF

Up to 20,000 people may have died in the terrorist outrage on the World Trade
Centre in New York, city officials said today.

Ten thousand shoppers in a mall under the centre were feared killed and a
further 10,000 in the towers themselves.

In Britain, Home Secretary Jack Straw said officials had identified that up to
100 Britons were among the dead at the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

"The total number of British deaths is unlikely to be less than the middle 100s
and maybe higher," he said,

US officials believe up to 50 people were involved in the attacks in New York
and Washington, it was reported today. Ten are thought to be still at large and
the remainder either died in the attacks or were unaccounted for, according to
the LA Times.

In addition to the 20,000 feared killed after the two hijacked planes smashed
into the World Trade Centre on Tuesday, about 260 police and firefighters are
believed to have died when the twin towers collapsed on them.

About 150 people are unaccounted for after the later attack on the Pentagon and
266 people died on the four aircraft hijacked in the wave of atrocities.

New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani has confirmed that the city has requested 6,000
body bags from federal officials.

With the finger of suspicion increasingly pointing at terrorist Osama bin Laden,
the identities of more than a dozen of the men who hijacked the four planes has
been established.

The United Nations and several foreign aid organisations completed their
withdrawal from Afghanistan today, fearing a US military attack on targets
associated with bin Laden. Reports that bin Laden is under house arrest have
been denied by the Afghan authorities.

It has also emerged that passengers on the plane which crashed in Pennsylvania
may have learned of the attacks on the World Trade Centre and tried to overpower
their hijackers to keep the jet from hitting another landmark.

The rescue effort was today continuing in the rubble of the World Trade Centre.

Buildings which had been part of the complex began to collapse last night
prompting an evacuation of the area. But today exhausted firefighters and police
were back digging at the ruins.

Late last night five more people were pulled alive from the rubble, bringing the
total to more than 15.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              201 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          September 13, 2001 Thursday

LGA CONDEMNS TERRORIST ATTACK ON UNITED STATES

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 179  words



HIGHLIGHT: The Local Government Association joins governments all over the world
in condemning the appalling terrorist attacks...


The Local Government Association joins governments all over the world in
condemning the appalling terrorist attacks on the United States of America.The
LGA urges its member authorities in England and Wales to issue joint statements,
with local community leaders of all political, ethnic and religious backgrounds,
expressing the horror felt by their constituents at such acts of
terrorism.Jeremy Beecham, chair of the LGA said: `As community leaders, local
authorities have a key role to play in ensuring that the reaction to Tuesday's
atrocities is not manipulated by extremist political organisations to promote
negative racial or religious stereotypes. Local authorities, along with local
media, have a responsibility to foster positive community relations across
racial and religious divides.`In the aftermath of Tuesday's events, it is
important to communicate effectively to all communities the widespread
condemnation of indiscriminate terrorist atrocities and to employ those common
human feelings in strengthening community relations in multi-cultural Britain
today.'

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                        Local Government Chronicle (LGC)

                          September 13, 2001 Thursday

RIPPLES FROM AMERICAN SHOCKWAVE HIT BRITAIN

SECTION: ARTICLE; Policy and Politics; News

LENGTH: 346  words



HIGHLIGHT: As US politicians praised the heroic efforts of public workers
following the world's worst terrorist attack, UK cou...


As US politicians praised the heroic efforts of public workers following the
world's worst terrorist attack, UK councils were urging vigilance, and fearing
the attack could fuel community tensions.US president George Bush hailed 'the
daring of our rescue workers' and the efforts of local authorities and emergency
teams in New York and Washington.Washington mayor Anthony Williams thanked
district staff for 'staying calm, keeping our streets clear and co-operating to
help us through this difficult time'.In London, mayor Ken Livingstone pointed
out that public sector workers had performed heroically and called on the
capital to remain 'as vigilant as ever'. He met with emergency services to
discuss what help could be offered to New York and the security implications for
London.The Corporation of London has advised companies in the square mile to
check staff are familiar with emergency procedures. The Greater London Assembly
held a minute's silence before its Wednesday meeting and Mr Livingstone
cancelled a circus event due to be held in Trafalgar Square.Tower Hamlets LBC,
which contains Docklands and part of the financial district, asked residents to
be 'aware of security'.There was concern speculation about who was behind the
attacks could fuel racist tensions, following reports from the US of threats
against Arabs and Muslims.London boroughs, the Metropolitan Police, and
community groups were working together to 'ease any potential community
tensions'.Bradford MDC member Inkthab Alan (Con) said he was stunned by the
attack and hoped it would not set back community relations in the city.He
warned: 'It is too early to speculate.

There are no suspects as yet. But if this is going to end in a religious war, we
have to hope it is not brought to England.'Local Government Association chair
Sir Jeremy Beecham (Lab) said: 'Councils have a role to play in ensuring the
reaction to the atrocities is not manipulated by extremists to promote negative
stereotypes.'He called on councils to issue joint statements 'expressing the
horror of their constituents'.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Local Government Chronical


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 13, 2001

Terror attack on US receives worldwide condemnation;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 257 words


NATIONS around the world, including US enemies Libya and Iran, condemned the
terror attacks on the US yesterday.

China beefed up security around US diplomatic buildings and said that "China is
utterly opposed to terrorist activities."

US Ambassador Clark Randt expressed thanks to Chinese President Jiang Zemin for
his sympathy and support and to Chinese Foreign Minister Tang Jiaxuan.

Iranian President Mohammad Khatami condemned what he called the "terrorist"
attacks on Iran's arch-foe and offered "deep sympathy" to the US nation.

"Terrorism is condemned and the international community should take effective
measures to eradicate it, " he said.

Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi, regarded as a pariah by Washington, also offered
condolences at the "horrific attacks."

Pakistan, the main international backer of the Taliban in Afghanistan, joined in
the condemnation.

Egypt, Israel and European leaders from Britain to Russia broke off normal
business for crisis meetings.

Russian President Vladimir Putin and British Prime Minister Tony Blair called
for a co-ordinated international response.

Mr Putin told US President George W Bush that "barbarous terrorist acts aimed
against wholly innocent people cause us anger and indignation."

United Nations secretary general Kofi Annan said that the attacks had
traumatised the world, but he urged cool and reasoned judgment.

Iraq said that the US deserved Tuesday's attacks in New York and Washington as
the fruits "of its crimes against humanity."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              204 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 13, 2001, Thursday

CITY MARKET REPORT

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 546 words


SHARES endured a rollercoaster session yesterday as the London market struggled
to come to terms with uncertainty caused by the terrorist attacks in the US.

After the first ten minutes of trading, more than pounds 21bn had been wiped off
the value of Britain's leading companies.

But as institutions decided to hold onto their shares, the FTSE 100 began to
stabilise and then soar ahead.

The market's biggest stocks were among those topping the leader board, although
top spot went to troubled telecom group Marconi.

The group jumped 12pc, or 3.75p, to 35.75p - ironically on the day its demotion
into the FTSE 250 was confirmed.

Alongside Marconi were mobile phone giant Vodafone, up 10p to 134p, and
pharmaceutical group GlaxoSmithKline, 11pc ahead, or 174p to pounds 18.00.

Other defensive retailers made up ground, particularly retail stocks, with
Britain's biggest grocer Tesco posting a 16.75p jump to 246.75p.

Rival supermarket chain Sainsbury's climbed 28p to 367.25p, while Morrisons
jumped 13p to 200p and Safeway ended up 21.75p higher at 335p.

Banks were also having a positive day on the market, with Abbey National up 8pc,
69p at 985p, HBOS, 37p ahead at 839p and Lloyds TSB up 26.5p to 651.5p.

Other banks moving into positive territory were Royal Bank of Scotland, up 10p
at pounds 14.75 and Barclays, up 29p to pounds 17.80.

Yesterday's results Aegis interim pre-tax profit was pounds 17.6m (pounds
32.2m), EPS 0.8p (1.9p), interim dividend 0.48p (0.46p) Ask Central interim pre
-tax profit was pounds 5.9m (pounds 4.5m), EPS 4.9p (3.9p), interim dividend
0.125p (0.125p) Carillion interim pre-tax profit was pounds 9m (pounds 9.3m),
EPS 1.8p (LPS 2.3p), interim dividend 1.38p (1.34p) Celltech interim pre-tax
loss was pounds 15.7m (loss pounds 382.6m), LPS 7.4p (LPS 151.1p), interim
dividend nil (n/a) Development Securities interim pre-tax profit was pounds 4.5m
(pounds 3.0m), EPS 10.2p (7.9p), interim dividend 1.5p (1.35p) InterClubNet
final pre-tax loss was pounds 2.2m (loss pounds 1.0m), LPS 9.6p (LPS 22.8p),
total dividend nil (n/a) Interserve interim pre-tax profit was pounds 15m
(pounds 13.1m), EPS 8.6p (8.1p), interim dividend 3.8p (3.6p) Kingfisher interim
pre-exceptional profit was pounds 217.2m (pounds 219.5m), LPS 3.0p (EPS 15.2p),
interim dividend 4.345p (4.25p) Metnor Group interim pre-tax profit was pounds
2.7m (pounds 2.0m), EPS 12.1p (8.55p), interim dividend 1.65p (1.5p) Mucklow
final pre-tax profit was pounds 11.9m (pounds 13.5m), EPS 6.19p (13.73p), total
dividend 9.57p (8.70p) National Express interim pre-tax profit was pounds 133.1m
(pounds 21.8m), EPS 88.6p (14.6p), interim dividend 7.3p (6.5p) Regent Inn final
pre -tax profit was pounds 14.6m (pounds 10.9m), ES 12.9p (9.4p), total dividend
4.93p (4.48p) Trace Computers pre-tax profit was pounds 3.2m (pounds 2.3m), EPS
17.12p (11.64p), total dividend nil (n/a) Waterford Wedgwood interim pre-tax
profit was pounds 8.7m (pounds 9.6m), EPS 1.06p (1.15p), interim dividend 0.43p
(0.40p) Woolworths interim pre-tax loss was pounds 62.8m (loss pounds 40.1m),
LPS n/a (LPS n/a), interim dividend 0.3p (n/a) Yule Catto interim pre-tax loss
was pounds 1.9m (profit pounds 48.8m), EPS 8.6p (11.3p), interim dividend 4.9p
(4.7p).

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              205 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

TERROR FROM THE SKIES: ATTACKS COULD MAKE A CASE FOR THE SON OF STAR WARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 308 words


THE aerial terrorist attacks on New York and Washington are likely to reinforce
the case for President Bush's missile defence scheme - which is likely to have
implications for Britain.

The hugely controversial project is designed to protect the United States from
missile attack by rogue states.

Though the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon saw the terrorists
use hijacked airliners rather than missiles, the fact that the attacks came from
the skies is likely to strengthen the hand of those in the US administration who
insist that America is vulnerable to aerial attack.

Sceptics will point out that the system, employing surface-to-air missiles, is
intended to intercept incoming ballistic missiles, rather than low flying
aircraft.

But the project's influential proponents in Washington will argue that it could
evolve into a more flexible system capable of dealing with a wide range of
threats.

The pounds 40 billion system, dubbed Son of Star Wars after Ronald Reagan's
similar, but abortive, 1980s programme, would almost certainly require the use
of early warning radar facilities at Fylingdales and Menwith Hill, both in
Yorkshire.

The plans have proved highly controversial. The missile technology on which the
system would be based has yet to be proven reliable, while the Russians and
Chinese have voiced alarm about the implications for global security.

Many Labour backbenchers have warned that the scheme could trigger a new arms
race.

Tory leader William Hague committed his party to backing the scheme before the
General Election.

The Government, however, has not clarified its position, insisting that it has
yet to receive a definitive proposal from Washington - although Tony Blair's
Press secretary Alastair Campbell has described the scheme as "broadly" a good
idea.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              206 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 12, 2001

It could happen here

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 116 words


LONDON: A terrorist attack similar to the atrocities committed in the U.S. could
happen in Britain - and there is little we can do to stop it, an air safety
expert said.

Trained hijackers would find it "relatively easy" to slam a captured passenger
jet into a major UK building, according to Jonathan Crivon, managing director of
Airline Safety and Protection.

He said: "Crashing a plane into Downing Street or Buckingham Palace is an
achievable task.

"The attack on The World Trade Centre and the Pentagon was heavily planned,
probably taking years to prepare.

"If someone is that intent on creating devastation it's extremely hard to stop
without grounding all aircraft."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              207 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

THEATRE AND LEISURE ATTRACTIONS CLOSE VIGIL: Thousands of students light candles
on the steps of the; University of Texas Tower

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 366 words


THE Emmy awards ceremonies were indefinitely postponed, amusement parks closed
and Hollywood studios locked their gates as the terrorist attacks darkened a
stunned entertainment industry.

ALL Broadway shows were cancelled in New York and box offices at the theatres
were closed indefinitely.

WALT Disney World in Florida and Disneyland and Universal Studios in Southern
California were shut down, and many of the landmark attractions on the Las Vegas
Strip, including the Eiffel and Stratosphere towers, were closed. Yet all
casinos remained open and gambling continued.

BRITAIN'S embassy and consulates in America are staying open round the clock.
Consular staff in New York set up a helpline for British citizens in the city
and their relatives and are keeping it open "for the foreseeable future".

FARES will rise, some operators could go out of business and air travel will
never be the same again, a UK aviation expert said. Phil Butterworth- Hayes,
civil aviation editor of Jane's Information Group, said those who did travel
could expect delays from increased security, airlines would have to work much
more closely with airports over precautions and methods of passenger
identification would have to become more sophisticated.

THE European Union held emergency talks today to see how it can stand by the
United States and assess the political, financial and economic impact of the
terrorist atrocities in New York and Washington. European Central Bank president
Wim Duisenberg said the ECB was ready "to support the normal functioning of
markets."

LONDON mayor Ken Livingstone urged the city's people to remain vigilant but
calm. He told a meeting of the Greater London Assembly: "I want to send two
clear messages to Londoners. First, stay calm. There are no indications that
London or the UK is a target for any further attacks. Second, as the Ealing bomb
showed earlier this summer, Londoners must remain as vigilant as ever."

TOURISM chiefs fear that the US terrorist atrocities would drastically cut the
number of American visitors to Britain. America is the UK's biggest tourism
market, with about four million US visitors coming to Britain each year.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              208 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

We will help hunt down evil culprits, says Blair

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 623 words

BRITAIN will stand "shoulder to shoulder" with America in seeking to find and
punish the perpetrators of the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and
the Pentagon, Tony Blair vowed last night.

In a tense and emotional statement from 10 Downing Street, a clearly shocked Mr
Blair said mass terrorism was the "new evil in our world".

He said there were no adequate words of condemnation for those responsible for
the "barbarism".

"The people who perpetrated it have no regard whatever for the sanctity or value
of human life."

After chairing an emergency meeting of the Cabinet's Civil Contingencies
Committee, known as Cobra, Mr Blair announced tighter security measures in
Britain, including a ban on civil planes flying over London.

The Prime Minister rushed back to London yesterday afternoon to take charge of
the Government's response, cancelling his planned speech to the TUC conference
in Brighton.

The senior Cabinet ministers were summoned to No 10 to prepare contingency plans
against similar terrorist attacks against prominent public buildings in Britain
and overseas.

Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, Geoff
Hoon, the Defence Secretary, and Adml Sir Michael Boyce, Chief of Defence Staff,
attended the emergency Cabinet meeting.

Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, was also present.

After the Cabinet meeting, Mr Blair, who saw the television pictures of the
second aircraft crashing into the World Trade Centre while in his hotel room in
Brighton, said it was not a battle between America and terrorism, but between
the free and democratic world and terrorism.

"We therefore here in Britain stand shoulder to shoulder with our American
friends in this hour of tragedy and we, like them, will not rest until this evil
is driven from our world," he said.

Mr Blair said ministers had ordered immediate measures to limit the risk of
similar attacks on British targets. Security would be stepped up at every level
across the country. No flights would leave Britain unless maximum security could
be guaranteed. Aircraft would no longer be allowed to cross central London and
private flights would be permitted only with special authorisation.

Earlier, Mr Straw said the world had watched the television pictures from
America with "absolute horror".

"We in Britain have offered whatever help we can to the American government to
bring the perpetrators to justice and I have passed my condolences to the US
Secretary of State, Colin Powell," he said.

Downing Street officials said the Prime Minister had spoken to Chancellor
Gerhard Schroder of Germany and President Jacques Chirac of France about the
tragedy and planned to speak to President Bush at the earliest opportunity.

His decision to offer Britain's full support will have implications for security
for British citizens at home and abroad.

Mr Blair said security had been stepped up at British military bases around the
world. Business and financial institutions were being advised how to protect
themselves, the Prime Minister said. But while the new safeguards would cause
inconvenience, life in Britain would go on. "Business and everyday life can
continue as normal," Mr Blair added.

William Hague, the outgoing Conservative leader, said the attacks amounted to
"an act of war against civilisation".

Charles Kennedy, leader of the Liberal Democrats, said: "The international
democratic community must come together as never before to see down the forces
of sheer evil that perpetrate such crimes."

Dr George Carey, the Archbishop of Canterbury, called for prayer in response to
the attacks and said many churches would remain open for private prayer and
reflection.
[PS]News: [ES]

Attack on America:

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              209 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

AMERICA TERRORIST ATTACKS: THIS IS THE TRUE COST OF DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: Paul Beaver Defence Analyst & Spokesman For Jane'S Defence Publications

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 621 words


A STUNNED America is already asking its government: "How did this happen?"

How could their massive multi-billion dollar security services fail to prevent
the world's greatest act of terrorism?

How could New York, its largest city, and Washington DC, its seat of government,
fall victim to such outrages?

Who did it and - as anger replaces shock - how and when can we take our revenge?

This was a co-ordinated terrorist attack entirely without precedent in its
scale, savagery and complexity.

At least three airline hijackings, a car bomb, the World Trade Centre destroyed
and part of the Pentagon flattened.

It seems like the plot of a series of far-fetched Hollywood movies rolled into
one.

But it was violently and bloodily real and beamed on live TV to every part of
the world.

The terrorism outrages in Britain by the IRA and the Real IRA, horrific and
tragic as they have been, are nothing compared to yesterday's terrible events.

Who was responsible? It could have been a Palestinian group, Arab extremists, an
Islamic fundamental group or a coalition of people from all three or elsewhere.

At the time of the Oklahoma bombing, everyone immediately pointed the finger at
the Arab or Islamic world. No-one thought about home-grown American terrorism
carried out by US rednecks.

But the target then was a US Federal building - Timothy McVeigh was attacking
the US government for its domestic policies.

The Pentagon and the World Trade Centre are all about US foreign policy.

The Pentagon is the symbol of America's military power to back up its foreign
policy - a policy that includes recent attacks by US and British aircraft on
Saddam Hussein's air defence system - and the World Trade Centre is seen as a
symbol of globalisation and US economic might.

America's security services failed to warn of these attacks, but there were
warnings a few days ago for US citizens to be vigilant.

But, as in the past, people believed it was aimed at US citizens in foreign
countries, where there were car bombs, hijackings and kidnappings.

Not at home. Not in America.

The US military will now be on maximum alert. Had this been an attack by, say,
North Korea, then this would be war.

President Bush and his military advisers would know and would have plans set up
to deal with such a contingency.

But at the moment, the US is in the dark. They don't know who to target, how to
attack them and with what level of force.

Yesterday's events can truly be compared to the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor,
which for most modern Americans is something taught in history or was the movie
they went to see this summer.

Yesterday was the disaster movie blockbuster scenario made chillingly real.

And there was no Bruce Willis in a ripped T-shirt to save people in the last
reel.

This has rammed home to America in a terrible way that real terrorists kill.
They are facing people who are prepared to fly aircraft carrying innocent people
into a building, knowing they will die in a fireball.

The average American doesn't look much beyond his own city, his state and beyond
his country's borders. Terrorism is something that happens elsewhere.

American airports don't have the same sophisticated security we have in Europe.
They have long been criticised by their own Federal Aviation Authority for
lapses.

I am not at all surprised that this has happened in America.

Americans believe security comes from having 12 carrier battle groups and 20
nuclear submarines at sea all the time. They learned the terrible lesson
yesterday that it isn't necessarily so.

Vulnerability to terrorism is part of the price we pay for an open and
democratic society.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              210 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                               September 12, 2001

AGENCY: AGENCY

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.7

LENGTH: 198 words


Risk on UK flights hard to combat

A SIMILAR terrorist attack could happen in Britain and there is little we can do
to stop it, says an air safety expert.

Trained hijackers would find it "relatively easy" to force a captured passenger
jet to fly into a major UK building, according to Jonathan Crivon.

The managing director of Airline Safety and Protection said: "Crashing a plane
into Downing Street or Buckingham Palace is achievable.

"The American attacks were heavily planned, probably taking years to prepare.

"If someone is that intent on creating devastation it's extremely hard to stop
without grounding all aircraft."

He said a hijacking can happen at any stage in a flight, using anything from a
pen, a hypodermic syringe to a gun.

Mr Crivon said: "Security is generally tighter in British airports than in the
US but it's very difficult to stop many of these 'weapons' being taken on board
and used."

He said the best means of preventing attacks taking place was providing extra
cash for training cabin crew in security measures.

Mr Crivon said staff should be trained in passenger profiling, observing
travellers for signs that could indicate evil intent.

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              211 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                           Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2001

Why it could happen again - in UK

SECTION: AGENCY:AGENCY:Agency, Pg.44

LENGTH: 356 words


A TERRORIST attack similar to the atrocities committed in the US could happen in
Britain - and there is little we can do to stop it, an air safety expert said
today.

Trained hijackers would find it "relatively easy" to slam a captured passenger
jet into a major UK building, according to Jonathan Crivon, managing director of
Airline Safety and Protection.

He said: "Crashing a plane into Downing Street or Buckingham Palace is an
achievable task.

"The attack on The World Trade Centre and the Pentagon was heavily planned,
probably taking years to prepare.

"If someone is that intent on creating devastation it's extremely hard to stop
without grounding all aircraft."

He said a hijacking can happen at any stage in a flight, using anything from a
pen or a hypodermic syringe to a gun.

"Security is generally tighter in British airports than in the US, but it is
very difficult to stop many of these 'weapons' being taken on board and used. If
people have the balls to it, it can be done."

He added: "The only way to stop a plane from crashing into a building if it is
intent on doing so is to stop it taking off.

"Once it's in the air you don't know if it's just a hijacking or if there is
going to be a suicide attempt."The Government would be extremely unlikely to
shoot it down because it would not know if it was possible to resolve the
situation peacefully and save the lives of the passengers."

He said jets hijacked overseas could be piloted to targets in Britain.

"A plane taken in India, which has a history of hijacking, could be flown to the
UK and used as a 'flying bomb'."

He said the best means of preventing attacks taking place was providing extra
cash for training cabin crew in security measures.

Mr Crivon said staff should be trained in "passenger profiling", where they
observe travellers for signs of nervousness that could indicate evil intent.

He said airlines should also lock doors to the cockpit.

"Leaving them open makes them easy prey, as was demonstrated by the
Nairobi-bound British Airways flight last year which was two seconds from
disaster after a madman stormed the cockpit."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                    Copyright 2001 Grimsby Evening Telegraph

                              212 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 12, 2001

City evacuates buildings after US attacks;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 118 words


LONDON'S financial centres were evacuated yesterday, amid fears that they could
be a target in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the US.

The London Stock Exchange, the Lloyd's building, Canary Wharf and the NatWest
Tower in central London were among those emptied.

Many US banks and British companies in the City sent workers home as a
precaution, as news of the devastation in New York and Washington broke.

One worker at Canary Wharf, which is Britain's tallest tower, said: "We were
watching what was happening in America, when suddenly the power cut out in our
office and the fire alarm went off.

"I don't know why it did, but nobody needed much more encouragement to get out."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              213 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                               September 12, 2001

Britain could be a target

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:Home, Pg.12

LENGTH: 358 words


A TERRORIST attack similar to the atrocities committed in the US could happen in
Britain - and there is little we can do to stop it, an air safety expert said
today.

Trained hijackers would find it 'relatively easy' to slam a captured passenger
jet into a major UK building, according to Jonathan Crivon, managing director of
Airline Safety and Protection.

He said: "Crashing a plane into Downing Street or Buckingham Palace is an
achievable task.

"The attack on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon was heavily planned,
probably taking years to prepare.

"If someone is that intent on creating devastation it's extremely hard to stop
them without grounding all aircraft."

He said a hijacking can happen at any stage in a flight, using anything from a
pen or a hypodermic syringe to a gun.

"Security is generally tighter in British airports than in the US, but it is
very difficult to stop many of these 'weapons' being taken on board and used. If
people have the balls to do it, it can be done."

He added: "The only way to stop a plane from crashing into a building if it is
intent on doing so is to stop it taking off.

"Once it's in the air you don't know if it's just a hijacking or if there is
going to be a suicide attempt.

"The Government would be extremely unlikely to shoot it down because it would
not know if it was possible to resolve the situation peacefully and save the
lives of the passengers."

He said jets hijacked overseas could be piloted to targets in Britain.

"A plane taken in India, which has a history of hijacking, could be flown to the
UK and used as a 'flying bomb'."

He said the best means of preventing attacks taking place was providing extra
cash for training cabin crew in security measures.

Mr Crivon said staff should be trained in 'passenger profiling,' where they
observe travellers for signs of nervousness that could indicate evil intent.

He said airlines should also lock doors to the cockpit.

"Leaving them open makes them easy prey, as was demonstrated by the
Nairobi-bound British Airways flight last year which was two seconds from
disaster after a madman stormed the cockpit."

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 Scunthorpe Evening Telegraph

                              214 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

FEARS RISE OF MORE ATTACKS;
 TERROR IN THE STATES

BYLINE: Louise Day And Abby Alford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 300 words


PENTAGON officials were due to meet a South Wales defence company on Friday to
look at state-of-the-art anti-terrorism detection.

But yesterday's devastation on New York and Washington by suicide plane
hijackers has thrown the meeting into doubt.

Representatives from the American government had timetabled talks at the Wales
Office in Cardiff with Bridgend firm Biotrace. They had expressed interest in
the firm's products, which detect the presence of biological weapons in
terrorist attacks.

But a spokesman for Biotrace said today it was unknown if the discussions would
still go ahead.

Ian Johnson - chief executive of the company, which also has a North American
office just one hour away from the World Trade Centre devastation in New York -
said: "Our detection equipment wouldn't have prevented this disaster but it does
raise the issue of increasing concerns of terrorist attacks which can include
the use of biological weapons."

Biotrace already supplies Britain's Ministry of Defence with agents able to
detect the presence of substances in the air emitted by bombs.

Mr Johnson said: "We were due to meet representatives from the Pentagon in the
Wales Office on Friday to discuss the company's biological weapon detection.

"We have an office in New Jersey which is about one hour away from New York but
we are not concerned about it at this stage."

As yet, no group has claimed responsibility for the attack.

The leader of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) denied
his group was involved. Qais Abdel Rahim was reacting to reports that two Arab
satellite stations in the Gulf had received anonymous claims of responsibility
on behalf of the DFLP, a radical PLO faction.

Abdel Rahim said his group condemned the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNED Biotrace chief executive Ian Johnson and, above, firefighters
tackle the blazing Pentagon building. MAIN PICTURE: Allsport; UK/ALLSPORT

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              215 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

Invulnerable no more

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Features

LENGTH: 455 words


Yesterday saw the world's worst terrorist attack. Giles Whittell talks to a
terrorism expert about the psychology of the suicide bombers; Michael Binyon
explains why retaliation may be impossible and Ann Treneman explains the shock
of those who grew up in 'the world's safest nation'

When you grow up in America, you know certain things. You live in the best
country in the world. You live in the richest country in the world. And you live
in a country whose mainland has never seriously been attacked from the outside.
You are invulnerable to such a thing.

As a child you are taught many things about what could harm you. You are taught
to be afraid of strangers and the man on the corner with the sweets and the
sickly grin. To watch out for traffic -both ways -and to make sure there are no
hidden razors in that apple given you at Hallowe'en.

But no child in America would understand why there are no bins on the London's
Underground. No child in America would understand the feeling that any child or
adult in Britain would have when they see a rogue package sitting on the floor
of a train in Britain. In America, they'd just pick up the package and try to
find its owner. There is no concept of what that particular fear, so much a part
of life in Britain, feels like. The idea of random terrorist attack is unknown
in America.

Yesterday's cataclysmic events will change all of that, for ever. The result
will be a loss of innocence that will change the way every one of America's 280
million people think. It is as large as that. An outsider would say that there
is little about America that is innocent anyway. They often see the violence,
the cruelty, the ugliness. But an American would say that the good side of
America is stronger than the bad because, at its best, the US is a beautiful,
inspiring and kind place. How much of that will change now we can only guess.

Americans always knew they were lucky. But, as anyone who has visited America
knows, everywhere else in the world is very, very far away when you are in
Sarasota or Iowa City or Sacramento. What goes on in Europe, in China, in the
place they call E-ran, is of interest to many Americans -the success of CNN has
shown that Americans do care about the outside world -but is of interest in the
same way that what you see through a very long spyglass is.

Now America has come under attack in a way that even Hollywood could never have
contemplated. The unthinkable has happened and the fortress will never be the
same again. America will come together to deal with this -Oklahoma taught us
that on a much smaller scale -but no one will ever feel truly safe again and
such a change goes to the heart of the American soul.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              216 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 12, 2001

Chaos as flights are cancelled

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.8

LENGTH: 335 words


INTERNATIONAL airlines scrambled to divert or cancel flights to the USA
following the airborne terror attacks.

"Today's events will cast a 20 year shadow over international civil aviation,"
said Phil Butterworth-Hayes, civil aviation editor of the Jane's publishing
group in Britain.

"It will be a bigger shadow than the one cast by the Lockerbie crash and the
restrictions on civil aviation will be immense," he said, referring to the Pam
Am jumbo jet bombing that killed 270 people over Scotland in 1988.

The cancellations and diversions caused confusion and congestion at many
European airports, where airlines ordered flights bound for the US to do U-turns
or find alternate landing points outside America.

Some airlines reversed course only after being denied permission to land by the
Federal Aviation Administration, which ordered US air space to be shut down.

Israel closed its air space to foreign carriers for at least 24 hours.

Britain and Belgium banned commercial flights over their capitals of London and
Brussels.

"No flights will take off from the UK for which we cannot apply the highest
standards of security for aircrew and passengers. Private flights have been
stopped except where specifically authorised," said Prime Minister Tony Blair.

"Flight paths into London have been changed so there will be no civil flights
over central London."

British Airways, Alitalia, Sabena and KLM also cancelled flights scheduled to
Beirut.

Commercial airlines are unlikely to restart transatlantic flights until this
afternoon, according to the European Organisation for the Safety of Air
Navigation, or Eurocontrol.

"My guess is that it will take 24 hours," said Gerard Stadler, a director of
Eurocontrol, which is based in Brussels and has 30 European member states.

Stadler would not say how many aircraft were turned around on Tuesday afternoon.
He did, however, note that there are about 500 westbound Atlantic crossings per
day, with each flight carrying about 400 passengers.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              217 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                         September 12, 2001, Wednesday

INTERNATIONAL FLIGHTS ON WAY TO US MAKE U-TURNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 387 words


INTERNATIONAL airlines scrambled to divert or cancel flights to the United
States after the airborne terror attacks.

"Today's events will cast a 20-year shadow over international civil aviation, "
said Phil Butterworth-Hayes, civil aviation editor of the Jane's publishing
group in Britain.

"It will be a bigger shadow than the one cast by the Lockerbie crash and the
restrictions on civil aviation will be immense, " he said, referring to the Pam
Am jumbo jet bombing that killed 270 people when the aircraft blew up over
Scotland in 1988.

The cancellations and diversions caused confusion and congestion at many
European airports where airlines ordered flights bound for the United States to
do U-turns or find alternative landing points outside America.

Israel closed its air space to foreign carriers for at least 24 hours.

Britain and Belgium banned commercial flights over their capitals, London and
Brussels.

"No flights will take off from the UK for which we cannot apply the highest
standards of security for aircrew and passengers. Private flights have been
stopped except where specifically authorised, " said Prime Minister Tony Blair.

"Flight paths into London have been changed so there will be no civil flights
over central London."

British Airways, Alitalia, Sabena and KLM also cancelled flights scheduled to
Beirut today.

Commercial airlines are unlikely to restart transatlantic flights until this
afternoon, according to the European Organisation for the Safety of Air
Navigation, or Eurocontrol.

"My guess is that it will take 24 hours, " said Gerard Stadler, a director of
Eurocontrol, which is based in Brussels and has 30 European member states.

Stadler would not say how many aircraft were turned around on Tuesday afternoon.
He did, however, note that there were about 500 westbound Atlantic crossings a
day, with each flight carrying about 400 passengers.

A Swissair flight carrying Cypriot President Glafcos Clerides bound from Zurich
to New York turned back over the Atlantic Ocean after being denied permission to
land.

A Saudi Arabian Airlines Boeing 747 passenger jet flying from Rome to Jeddah,
made an emergency landing at Athens after receiving a bomb threat. Anti
-terrorist squads evacuated the aircraft but found nothing in a search.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              218 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 12, 2001

We will hunt them down;
 We stand shoulder to shoulder with U.S. says an ashen Blair

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.6/ 7

LENGTH: 701 words


PRESIDENT George W Bush yesterday vowed to "hunt down" the terrorists
responsible for the devastating attacks on New York and Washington.

While President Bush initially put the emphasis on launching a huge manhunt for
the perpetrators, in the coming days he is bound to come under intense pressure
to launch a retaliatory strike against whoever emerges as the prime suspects.

President Bush faces the worst crisis the White House has tackled since the
Second World War, as scenes not witnessed by Americans since Pearl Harbour were
watched live by millions around the globe.

The United States has come under sustained attack for the first time in its
history from an enemy who is not a nation, but an unpredictable and unseen
terrorist organisation rooted in the complex hatreds of the Middle East.

The President has no choice but to strike back - but the key questions are how,
and at whom.

The USA has prided itself in the past on robust responses to terrorist assaults
on its nationals. But now there is no obvious target for retribution.

Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "The full horror of what has happened in the
United States earlier today is now becoming clearer.

"It is hard even to contemplate the utter carnage and terror which has engulfed
so many innocent people.

"We've offered President Bush and the American people our solidarity, our
profound sympathy and our prayers.

"But it is plain that citizens of many countries round the world including
Britain will have been caught up in this terror."

He said: "As to those that carried out these attacks, there are no adequate
words of condemnation.

"Their barbarism will stand as their shame for all eternity.

"This is not a battle between the United States of America and terrorism but
between the free and democratic world and terrorism.

"We therefore, here in Britain, stand shoulder to shoulder with our American
friends in this hour of tragedy and we, like them, will not rest until this evil
is driven from our world."

A White House Situation Room will have accompanied Mr Bush to Sarasota, on
Florida's Gulf coast, as a matter of course, aboard his jet Air Force One taking
him, as he thought, to a routine engagement.

Now it will be pressed into action for real as he consults allies - principally
Prime Minister Tony Blair and Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon - before
deciding how America's massive lethal force will be used.

His options are simple, once he identifies his foe, and have been demonstrated
in responses to attacks on American targets in the past.

Any sponsoring state can expect its capital to be bombed.

Tony Blair last night took control of Britain's response to the terrorist
attacks on America, ordering a range of security precautions.

The Prime Minister abandoned a speech to the TUC in Brighton and rushed to
Downing Street to chair an emergency meeting of the civil contingencies
committee.

He agreed a series of measures including:

Stepping up security at airports to the highest levels.

Banning most private flights.

Changing flight paths into London to prevent any civil jets flying over the
centre of the city.

Banning all flights from taking off from the U.S. unless the highest security
standards are in place.

Increasing security at all Government buildings and military premises.

Putting every UK police force on full alert.

Moving all defence bases around the world, as well as embassies, to high alert.

Advising major financial and business institutions on security measures.

Mr Blair said this would cause disruption, particularly at airports, but he
hoped that everyday life could carry on as close to normal as possible.

"But it is plain that citizens of many countries round the world including
Britain will have been caught up in this terror.

"Obviously some of these measures, not least the effect upon airports, will lead
to some disruption, and I hope people understand that.

"But other than the specific measures we have taken, or that we have advised
others to take, business and everyday life can continue as normal."

The civil contingencies committee meets again today at 8am.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              219 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 12, 2001

The West's best intelligence services utterly failed to predict the atrocities,
says Chapman Pincher, Britain's top spywriter

SECTION: News, Pg.12/ 13

LENGTH: 439 words


THE catastrophic terrorist attacks in New York and Washington yesterday
represent a failure of the Western intelligence system every bit as
reprehensible as that preceding the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbour.

There can be no doubt that such a cleverly coordinated attack on the heart of
the American economy, the twin towers of the Trade Centre - and on the actual
heart of US military power, the Pentagon - had been planned with precision.

This must have taken months, with many conspirators being involved.

There must have been a great deal of on-the-spotreconnaissance. There were
probably dry-run rehearsals with terrorists boarding planes which could be
diverted to New York and Washington.

Yet the CIA, the FBI and the National Security Agency, which, following the end
of the Cold War, are now concentrating on anti-terrorism, appear to have had no
wind of it.

The same stigma applies to the British Secret Intelligence Service, GCHQ, the
airwaves eavesdropping agency, and MI5, which all work in collaboration with the
U.S. , especially regarding terrorism.

Investigations showed that there had been intelligence warnings of the Pearl
Harbour attack which were lost in the bureaucratic machine and so were never
fully appreciated. Time will show whether yesterday's tragedy was due to a
similar cause.

This devastating operation also exposes appalling security breaches at the
airports where the hijackers boarded the planes, for they must almost certainly
have been armed to have been able to take them over.

It seems unlikely, though it is by no means impossible, that the operation was
carried out by Americans, as happened with the bombing of the Government
building in Oklahoma. There are crackpot para-military groups of Americans who
claim that the U.S.

Government is making war on its citizens.

However, they do not seem to be the type of fanatics to commit suicide, as
yesterday's terrorists were. So, a proPalestinian group remains the likeliest
suspect. The planning must have been costly, so the involvement of the rich
Saudi Arabian, bin Laden, who has previously been involved in attacks on U.S.
buildings abroad, is possible.

Saddam Hussein must also be on the suspect list. However, it would seem that the
terrorists knew how to fly a jumbo jet and it is unlikely that Iraqi pilots
would be prepared to do this, even on the orders of Saddam.

It might be significant that it is September and one of the most daring and
dedicated of the Palestinian terrorist groups - they murdered the Israeli
athletes at Munich Olympic Games in 1972 was called Black September.

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              220 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 11, 2001

Blair calls meeting of Cabinet's Cobra crisis team;
Terror War on US

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy;Charles Reiss

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 553 words


TONY BLAIR cancelled a planned speech to the TUC in Brighton this afternoon and
returned to London to chair an emergency meeting of the Cabinet's emergency
committee, Cobra.

The Prime Minister summoned senior colleagues to Downing Street amid fears that
the spate of international terrorism could spread to Britain - the US's
strongest military ally.

Home Secretary David Blunkett, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw and Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon were ordered to attend, along with senior military and
security chiefs. Cobra hardly ever meets in such circumstances - today's summons
effectively puts the entire country on a massive security alert at the highest
possible level.

Sources were saying there was no evidence that any targets in London or the rest
of the country were set to come under immediate attack.

However, Britain's strong links with the US put it under threat if terrorists
widen their field of attack.

Mr Straw said: "The first thing we all do as human beings is offer our prayers
and our feelings for this appalling, unbelievable evil that has befallen the
United States. Of course we are a very close ally, we work closely with them,
both militarily and in terms of intelligence, and we will do everything that we
can to assist the US in bringing these people to justice.

"We also have to do everything we can in the hope of averting further terrorist
incidents."

Asked whether the attacks had been anticipated, the Foreign Secretary said he
would never comment on intelligence reports but added: "I think it is perfectly
obvious that the world was taken by surprise."

He said claims of which group was responsible were still being assessed, adding:
"As we have seen so graphically and appallingly on our television screens, there
are limits to the precautions we can take in the face of this kind of attack on
civilisation. All precautions are being taken and we have taken them."

Mr Straw added: "Alert states for Government buildings, civilian and military,
have been raised in the UK. Alert states for diplomatic posts across the world
have been raised to their highest level."

Before leaving Brighton, Mr Blair, looking drawn, called on the democracies of
the world to unite to crush mass terrorism. He also sent a message of condolence
and sympathy to President George WBush and the American people. He said: "I know
you would wish to join with me in offering our deepest sympathy to the American
people and our absolute shock and outrage at what has happened." Mr Blair was
heard in silence broken by applause as he left the platform.

Speaking in Sarasota, Florida, where he had been visiting a school, Mr Bush
promised a "full-scale investigation to hunt down and find those folks who
committed this act. Terrorism against our nation will not stand". He had been
reading to a classroom full of children when his chief-of-staff Andrew Card
whispered into his ear. The president briefly looked sombre before he resumed
reading.

He then flew back to Washington for an emergency meeting of the National
Security Council.

Buckingham Palace said the Queen is to send a message of sympathy to Mr Bush.

* The Conservatives were tonight considering whether to postpone the
announcement of who has won their leadership contest, due tomorrow.


LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TONY BLAIR TODAY: HE EXPRESSED "SHOCK AND OUTRAGE" AT THE TERROR ATTACK
BEFORE CALLING A CABINET CRISIS MEETING; SMOKE BILLOWS FROM THE PENTAGON AFTER
TODAY'S ORCHESTRATED AIRBORNE ATTACK ON THE WASHINGTON DEFENCE HEADQUARTERS BY
TERRORISTS; A SECRET SERVICE OFFICER GUARDS THE PERIMETER OF THE WHITE HOUSE
TODAY; WRECKAGE BURNS IN FRONT OF A POLICE CAR IN WASHINGTON; PRESIDENT GEORGE W
BUSH HOLDS A MINUTE'S SILENCE FOR THE VICTIMS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              221 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 22, 2001, Wednesday

WE WANT BRITS OUT OF IRELAND ..SAY BRITS

BYLINE: Paul Clarkson, Maurice Fitzmaurice And Deirdre Tynan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 353 words

HIGHLIGHT: DECISION: Gildernew, left, Campbell


MOST British people want a united Ireland, a new poll has revealed.

And they say that both sides of the conflict in the North are to blame for the
lack of progress, according to the ICM/Guardian newspaper survey.

The statistics, which have received a mixed reaction from politicians in the
North, show 41 per cent of those surveyed believe Northern Ireland should join
the Republic.

And just 26 per cent of those polled say the North should stay part of the
United Kingdom.

Sinn Fein yesterday seized on the results saying it showed the party's analysis
of Irish politics has been right all along.

Michelle Gildernew, the Fermanagh and South Tyrone MP, called on British Prime
Minister Tony Blair to study the figures.

She said: "There is clearly a lack of enthusiasm in Britain for a continuation
of the union between Britain and this part of Ireland.

"From a republican perspective I find it encouraging the Sinn Fein analysis of
British political involvement in Irish affairs has been accepted by the British
public.

"Tony Blair will do well to take these findings on board and respond in a manner
which will meet the approval of an overwhelming majority in Ireland and in
Britain.

"It is now clear that nothing short of Irish unity and independence will
suffice."

But unionists said the will of people in the North is the key to its future, not
a straw poll.

DUP Assembly member Gregory Campbell dismissed the suggestion that the poll is a
threat to the North's British status.

He said: "If this poll was carried out for Scotland the outcome would be similar
but that is not the point.

"It would be up to people in Scotland, as it is in Northern Ireland, to decide
their future and not random polls.

"The poll comes after the six-week deadline for getting the Assembly back up was
missed and after a number of terrorist attacks in Britain.

"So it's hardly surprising people will react in this way. They are fed up with
the whole process."

Over a 1,000 adults were asked for their view and 64 per cent blamed both sides
equally for the failing process.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              222 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 August 1, 2001

Poll backs PM stance on terror

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 153 words


Britons overwhelmingly support the Prime Minister's handling of the Afghan
crisis but fear the military strikes make terror attacks on the UK more likely,
a poll out today shows. The survey also found more than 77 per cent of people
believe the attacks on the U.S. on September 11 had changed the world forever.
Mori questioned more than 600 adults for ITV1's Tonight With Trevor McDonald
programme, the first such poll since the air strikes on the Taliban and Osama
bin Laden began on Sunday.

The poll found 72 per cent approved of the way Mr Blair was handling the British
response to September 11 and 71 per cent believed Britain was right to join the
U.S. in the military retaliation.

But 59 per cent now thought terrorist attacks against the UK were more likely,
and 63 per cent were worried terrorists would use chemical and biological
weapons.

l World's top terrorists named: Pages 2 and 3.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: Stark beauty is the aim of photographer Julian Hughes.

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              223 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                 August 1, 2001

Plan for tougher anti-terror laws; Blunkett to propose tighter legislation

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 02

LENGTH: 488 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett will lay out his plans to tighten up Britain's
anti-terrorism legislation in the aftermath of the September 11 attacks when
Parliament returns from its summer break today.  With the allied air strikes
against Afghanistan's Taliban rulers entering a second week, Mr Blunkett will
brief MPs on his plans to protect Britain from Osama bin Laden and his Al Qaida
network in an emergency statement to the House of Commons.

Shortly before he speaks, Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will
continue efforts to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process, vital if Arab
governments are to continue the consensus for action against international
terrorism, by holding talks with the visiting Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.

With no signs of a let-up in the allied aerial bombardment last night, there was
anti-aircraft fire over the Afghan capital, Kabul, as U.S. aircraft again flew
over the city.

In his statement today, Mr Blunkett is expected to outline a multi-pronged
strategy, including amending the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to ensure those
suspected or convicted of terrorist involvement cannot be considered for asylum
in this country.

Other measures to be included in a catch-all bill will give law enforcement
agencies full access to air and sea carriers' passenger and freight lists, and
make it an offence for financial institutions not to report suspicious
transactions.

In a move designed to protect Britain's Muslim community from the backlash to
the terror attacks, Mr Blunkett will confirm a widening of the law on incitement
to include religious as well as racial hatred.

He will also lay out plans for a second bill which will provide for a complete
overhaul of the UK's extradition system, including plans for an EU-wide arrest
warrant.

In a separate statement, Chancellor Gordon Brown will brief MPs on plans to
clamp down on terrorist financing.

Meanwhile, Mr Blair and Mr Straw will discuss with Mr Arafat the implications of
the air strikes for the wider region, as well as how the Middle East peace
process can be moved forward.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said yesterday that new threats to Britons
and Americans from bin Laden's Al Qaida group amounted to an admission of guilt
for the September 11 terror attacks.

In a statement broadcast on Qatar's Al-Jazeera television, al Qaida spokesman
Sulaiman Abu Ghaith told US and British "infidels" to leave the Gulf or else
"Fire will flare underneath their feet." Last night, the Taliban appeared to be
showing some signs of the pressure they are under. With bombs reported to have
been dropped on the Taliban's frontline facing the opposition Northern Alliance,
they suggested bin Laden could be handed to a neutral country if sufficient
evidence were provided.

Deputy prime minister Haji Abdul Kabir said the Taliban would need evidence bin
Laden was behind the attacks.


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              224 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                 July 27, 2001

Terrorists target holidaymakers;
 24 Hours

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 152 words


MALAGA: Britons planning holidays to southern Spain were urged not to change
their travel plans today after a terror group stepped up its campaign against
tourists by planting a powerful car bomb at an airport.

Thousands of British holidaymakers were stranded at Malaga airport, just days
into the summer holiday rush, as more than 110lb of dynamite were defused by
security forces.

Yesterday's attack, believed to be by the Basque terror group Eta, is a
"significant and worrying development" in the campaign against tourism targets,
experts in Britain said.

But the Foreign Office and the Association of British Travel Agents renewed
advice to holidaymakers to be alert but not necessarily change travel plans.

Of the major tour operators, around 3,400 Thomson travellers were delayed both
at Malaga and in Britain, alongside 360 Air tours passengers and more than 400
JMC holidaymakers.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              225 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             June 11, 2001, Monday

DISSIDENT SUSPECTS STILL HELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words


GARDAI were yesterday continuing to question four people held in separate
operations on Saturday in connection with investigations into the activities of
dissident republican paramilitary groups.

Three men were arrested at Dundalk, Co Louth, and a woman later in Dublin.

On both occasions, bomb-making material was discovered.

Two of the men and the woman were being questioned in Dublin and the fourth
person in Ashbourne, Co Meath.

All were detained under the terms of anti-terrorist legislation permitting
suspects to be kept in custody for up to 72 hours before being either charged or
released.

The arrests marked the latest move in an on-going clampdown by gardai on
dissidents, including the Real IRA terrorists responsible for bomb attacks in
Britain and Ireland, among them the 1998 bombing of Omagh.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              226 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             May 26, 2001, Saturday

UK PUT ON ELECTION TERROR ALERT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


DISSIDENT Republican terrorists could be plotting more audacious atrocities than
March's explosion at the BBC in the run-up to the General Election, senior
police officers warned yesterday.

Anti-terrorist experts from the Metropolitan Police said dissidents, including
the Real IRA, represent a "graver danger" than the BBC incident and could
attempt a bomb in mainland Britain of similar proportions to the Omagh attack.

Next Friday is the anniversary of an explosion at Hammersmith Bridge in west
London, the first in a series of six attacks in the capital.

Assistant Commissioner of Specialist Operations David Veness said the number of
attacks in Northern Ireland had accelerated and this year has already reached
last year's total of 10.

Terrorist attacks escalated at the time of the 1992 and 1997 General Elections,
he said, and experts fear the pattern will be repeated in the run-up to June 7.

The Metropolitan Police launched its second counter-terrorist advertising
campaign in six months to urge the public to remain vigilant for suspicious
packages.

London radio stations will carry the commercial from today until the end of
electioneering, warning people to report anything suspicious and urging
landlords and car dealers to be vigilant about tenants and customers.

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              227 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             May 26, 2001, Saturday

Terrorists 'plan election bombs'

BYLINE: By John Steele Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 389 words

IRISH terrorists are plotting attacks in the run-up to the general election and
are capable of a spectacular lorry bombing, security chiefs fear.

Senior Scotland Yard officers renewed their appeals yesterday for public
vigilance over suspect individuals, vehicles and packages as the election
campaign enters its final two weeks before the June 7 poll.

David Veness, the Assistant Commissioner of the Metropolitan Police, who is in
overall charge of the special branch and anti-terrorist squads, said
intelligence suggested that dissident Irish terrorist groups were planning
attacks.

The Real IRA terror group, which murdered 29 people when it bombed Omagh in
1998, was responsible for 20 attacks in Northern Ireland and six around London
since the start of last year.

There were 10 in Ireland and three in Britain last year and the fact that the
overall figures for last year have been repeated in the first half of this year
suggests a worrying development.

Mr Veness said: "The general election provides an opportunity for Irish
dissident republican terrorists, who have no credible political agenda, to
intervene in the legitimate political process."

The bomb that exploded outside the BBC Television Centre in west London in March
contained about 77lb of home-made explosives, the same kind of material used in
one-ton bombs that exploded in the City of London and north London around
election time in 1992. There were also attacks around the time of the 1997
election.

Police and security forces fear that the terrorists are capable of building a
large-scale device.

The Real IRA's first mainland attack was in June last year, when a 1lb bomb
exploded underneath Hammersmith Bridge in west London. Since then, a similar
sized device has been found on a railway line near Acton, in west London; a
rocket has been fired at the MI6 building in south London; the BBC centre was
bombed; and two devices similar in size to the Hammersmith bomb were detonated
at a Post Office delivery office in north-west London.

All six have been linked and forensic tests show a number of the bombs contained
TNT, not the Semtex traditionally used by the Provisional IRA, which is still on
official ceasefire. Security chiefs believe that the Real IRA obtained its
arsenal in eastern Europe.
[PS]News: [ES]

Election 2001:

LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              228 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            May 23, 2001, Wednesday

Q: IF YOU'RE A BANNED DRIVER WITH NO INSURANCE, WHO IS THE LAST PERSON IN
BRITAIN YOU'D WANT TO BUMP INTO? A: SIR JOHN STEVENS, CHIEF OF THE METROPOLITAN
POLICE;
 POUNDS 50,000 JAG A WRITE-OFF

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 350 words


THIS was the moment yesterday that a banned driver with no insurance ran out of
luck.

After jumping a Give Way sign he smashed into a Jag carrying Britain's leading
police officer Sir John Stevens.

As if that wasn't bad enough, the outlaw driver then found himself pounced upon
by armed guards from the car who feared a terrorist attack. After the officers
searched the man for weapons, Sir John helped detain him while back-up was
called.

Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John was in the back of his silver bullet
-proof limo when it was hit by the pounds 500 F-Reg Rover in London's West End.

The 58-year-old suffered mild whiplash injuries and bruises to his legs. He
refused hospital treatment.

A Met insider said: "Sir John was on official business in his staff car when the
crash happened in Paddington. It was a severe collision. The Rover struck the
police vehicle broadside on the driver's side.

"Sir John was in the passenger side and was thrown across the car. He suffered
bruising and shock."

The officer's Special Branch driver also suffered bruising, whiplash, and shock
in the 30mph smash.

After being treated for minor cuts in hospital, the Rover driver was arrested on
suspicion of driving while disqualified, having no insurance and other offences.

The man, in his 30s - who gave a negative breath test - was released on police
bail while investigations continue into the accident which happened at the
height of London's rush hour.

Sir John's pounds 50,000 Scotland Yard Jag was a write-off. It was the
policeman's second escape from serious injury in just four months.

In February the keen amateur pilot walked away unhurt when he was forced to
crash land a Seneca light plane after one of its two engines failed at 5,000
feet.

Sir John, who has flown for 40 years and is a glider instructor, was praised for
his composure at keeping the craft in the air for 90 minutes to burn off fuel
before he could bring it down at Newcastle airport.

The plane, which suffered minor damage, was later destroyed in a mystery hangar
blaze.1

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: END OF THE ROAD: Onlookers survey the twisted wreckage of Sir; John's
Jaguar and F-Reg Rover which hit it after jumping Give Way sign in; London's
West End yesterday

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              229 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                 April 23, 2001

US tourists may not return for years

BYLINE: Lucy Ward Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 477 words


American tourists may not return to Britain after the foot and mouth outbreak
for up to four years, the culture secretary, Chris Smith, warned yesterday.

As tour operators disclosed that foreign tourism was down by up to 30% over the
Easter holidays, Mr Smith said the "real worry" was that, after the initial drop
in visitor numbers, "the American market in particular could take a long time to
recover".

On GMTV's Sunday programme, he pointed to the "major fall-off" in American
tourists coming to Britain for several years after the 1991 Gulf war, when many
were alarmed at the prospect of terrorist attacks. "Even though Britain was
thousands of miles away, the American tourist perspective was that Europe was
not somewhere to go, and that effect lasted for about three or four years".

European tourists were expected to take a far less sensitive approach over
returning to Britain on holiday, he indicated.

The government also sought to reassure the public last night that burning pyres
of animals slaughtered during the foot and mouth epidemic were not causing a
health risk. A report by the National Environmental Technology Centre claimed
the pyres were emitting higher levels of polluting dioxins than all the
country's factories combined.

American visitors form the core of the UK's tourism market, being worth pounds
2.5bn annually, but they have proven quick to steer clear over threats such as
IRA terrorism or reverberations from the Gulf or Balkan conflicts. Numbers
dropped by a quarter in 1991 as a result of the Gulf war.

The culture secretary's remarks coincided with a warning from Richard Tobias,
chief executive of the British Incoming Tour Operators Association, that the
industry - normally worth pounds 13bn a year to Britain's economy - faced
serious problems in the run-up to summer.

Trade was 25-30% down, he said on GMTV. The next eight weeks would be a crunch
period as operators sought to win summer bookings, he warned.

Mr Tobias called on Mr Smith to persuade cabinet colleagues, notably the
chancellor, Gordon Brown, to release funds to pay for a big publicity campaign
to attract overseas visitors.

Tourism leaders are furious after Mr Brown had approved only pounds 6m to
convince domestic and overseas tourists that Britain was not closed for
business.

The culture secretary appeared to hint at further cash, acknowledging: "We have
to make sure that we throw as many lifelines as we can to the hard-pressed
tourism industry."

He also made his most forthright attack yet on Conservative-controlled local
authorities such as Buckinghamshire which he claimed were refusing to open
footpaths to the public "for ideological reasons". He said: "I would appeal to
them, because they are affecting the tourism and hotel businesses in their
county."

Foot and mouth crisis, page 4


LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              230 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                 April 16, 2001

Real IRA blamed for attack on Post Office
 Terrorist device designed to maim and injure explodes 'without any notice
whatsoever'

SECTION: Business: CONSTRUCTION, Pg.26

LENGTH: 450 words


BOMBERS who planted a suspected terrorist device outside a Post Office delivery
depot were labelled "totally reckless" yesterday, as fears grew that a renewed
mainland terror campaign would escalate.

No warning was issued before Saturday night's blast in north London, believed to
be the work of dissident Irish republican terror group the Real IRA.

The device, packed with up to 1lb of high explosives, blew out windows,
exploding "without any notice whatsoever", the head of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, said.

It comes just six weeks after a bomb blast rocked BBC TV Centre in London. At
the time Mr Fry said he feared it was the escalation of a Real IRA terror
campaign on mainland Britain.

"We have been predicting, since Christmas, that the mainland, and London in
particular, were to be subject to terrorist attacks," he said.

Saturday's device exploded at 11.28pm and was a similar size to the device at
Hammersmith Bridge in June last year. It blew out the glass from the windows of
the depot, but nobody was inside and there were no reports of injuries.

But it was designed to maim or injure, and falling glass from the blast could
have caused horrendous injuries or even killed.

"Whoever put that device down was totally reckless as someone living in the
area, drinking in the pub just beyond this device, walking past at the time of
the explosion or in a vehicle, could have had a serious accident," Mr Fry said.

Lab tests would confirm if the bomb was the work of the Real IRA, he added.
There were no claims of responsibility last night.

A forensic fingertip search of the site was carried out and the focus of the
investigation switched to laboratory work to establish the type of explosive and
device used.  It was still unclear why the bombers targeted the depot at The
Hyde, Hendon, which suffered minor damage in the blast.

Within 100 yards of this blast were the Hyde Primary and Nursery School, a
Sainsbury's supermarket and garage and a Homebase DIY superstore.

From the police cordon around 100 yards away, two smashed windows could be seen
and metal railings lining the road outside the depot were twisted, apparently by
the force of the blast.

Gerry Madden, delivery officer manager at the postal sorting office, said 80
people worked at the depot but that no one was on duty on Saturday night.

Mr Fry said it was of the "utmost importance" that those responsible were found
and brought to justice.

The post office building is expected to open tomorrow morning after the Bank
Holiday.

- Anyone with information about the blast should contact the confidential
Anti-Terrorist Hotline on 0800 789 321.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              231 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                 April 16, 2001

Bomb terror alert;
 Real IRA suspected in delivery office blast

BYLINE: Jo Willey ;Wayne Veysey

SECTION: News, Pg.7

LENGTH: 480 words


BOMBERS who planted a suspected terrorist device outside a Post Office delivery
depot were labelled "totally reckless" yesterday, as fears grew that a renewed
mainland terror campaign would escalate.

No warning was issued before Saturday night's blast in North London, believed to
be the work of dissident Irish republican terror group the Real IRA.

The device, packed with up to 1lb of high explosive, blew out windows, exploding
"without any notice whatsoever, " said the head of Scotland Yard's
anti-terrorist branch, Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry.

It comes just six weeks after a bomb blast rocked BBC TV Centre in London.

At the time Mr Fry said he feared it was the escalation of a Real IRA terror
campaign on mainland Britain.

He said: "We have been predicting, since Christmas, that the mainland, and
London in particular, were to be subject to terrorist attacks."

Saturday's device exploded at 11.28pm and was a similar size to the device at
Hammersmith Bridge in June last year.

It blew out the glass from the windows ofthe depot, but nobody was inside and
there were no reports of injuries.

But it was designed to maim or injure and falling glass from the blast could
have caused horrendous injuries or even killed.

"Whoever put that device down was totally reckless as to someone living in the
area, drinking in the pub just beyond this device, walking past at the time of
the explosion or in a vehicle, could have had a serious accident, " he said.

Tests will confirm if the bomb was the work of the Real IRA, he added.

"Due to the number of recent attacks and the nature of this one, I suspect that
this is the work of the Real IRA, "Mr Fry said. There were no claims of
responsibility last night.

"They (the Real IRA) have put devices down with no warnings before, they have
put devices down with tragic consequences, such as Omagh, where warnings given
were totally inadequate, and they have not claimed responsibility for any of the
devices that have been placed in London since June 1 last year."

A forensic fingertip search of the site was carried out and the focus of the
investigation switched to laboratory work to establish the type of explosive and
device used.

It was still unclear why the bombers targeted the depot at The Hyde, Hendon,
which suffered minor damage in the blast.

"I don't know a significance other than being a Post Office premises. That will
fit in with the Easter Uprising, which of course is being celebrated, the
anniversary of that event is this weekend, " Mr Fry said.

"There are a number of other features that might fit in. There's the Good Friday
Agreement and where the peace process is, and equally there was the film of
Michael Collins on the television last night." The story of Irish radical
Michael Collins, starring Liam Neeson, was screened on ITV.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              232 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 March 23, 2001

SITE RANKS FOOT-AND-MOUTH WITH WAR ZONE - LEAD STORIES - CALL FOR GOVERNMENT TO
ACT OVER WARNING; U.S. WEB WARNING BLOW TO TOURISM

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE BY ALLISON COGGAN AND ANGUS MACLEOD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 589 words


BRITAIN'S tourism industry has been dealt another blow by a US government
website warning Americans that the foot-and-mouth crisis poses a threat equal to
that of a new Balkan war.

In a public announcement of the kind normally reserved for terrorist attacks and
military coups, the US Department of State tells potential tourists to expect
difficulties travelling in Britain and restricted access to visitor attractions.
The official statement has been posted ahead of warnings about fighting between
Macedonian troops and ethnic Albanian rebels.

This new blow to the already reeling tourist industry came as Holyrood Rural
Affairs Minister Ross Finnie was accused of damaging Scots tourism with an
"over-the-top" reaction to the crisis.

Westminster Tourism Minister Janet Anderson was sent to the States to convince
Americans not to cancel holidays in Britain just days after the official
government warning was posted.

She toured television stations, declaring: "Britain is still open for business.
Please come - we want you to come."

Last year, four million US tourists visited Britain, pumping GBP 25billion into
the economy. Around 500,000 came to Scotland, spending almost GBP 240million.
SNP rural affairs spokesman Fergus Ewing last night called for the Government to
persuade the US to withdraw the warning immediately. He said: "The decision by
the United States to rank, in terms of risk, Scotland and Britain alongside
Macedonia is wholly unjustified."

Earlier this week, the Government announced a GBP 10million package to dispel
Britain's image as a pariah, which is costing the tourist industry GBP
100million a week.

Meanwhile, Mr Finnie was criticised for failing to make it clear earlier that
his "stay out of the countryside" warning only applied to areas with livestock.

Bowing to pressure from other ministers, who claim he has helped turn Scotland
into a 'no-go' area for foreign tourists, Mr Finnie will today announce plans to
open up parts of the countryside. However, colleagues say it is "too little, too
late".

The area north of the line between the rivers Forth and Clyde will be declared
'provisionally free'. South-east of that line will be declared 'potentially at
risk' and the South-west will be deemed 'infected'.

Mr Finnie's colleagues say he should have issued such classifications long
before now and claim he has put the fragile rural economy of many parts of
Scotland at serious risk of meltdown.

One senior minister told the Scottish Daily Express: "He has gone completely
over the top, closing down Scotland and leaving others scrambling to reopen it.

"He has given the impression that the whole of Scotland is off-limits and is
only now trying to rectify this situation - but it is far too little and too
late."

However, a spokeswoman for Mr Finnie said he had followed the "absolutely
correct strategy", adding: "It was right to point out the dangers to the
countryside at the start."

Ivan Broussine, of the Scottish Tourism Forum, said: "The injunction not to go
into the countryside should have been diluted earlier and the Executive has got
to wake up to the fact that businesses are going down the tubes."

Cameron McNeish, of the Ramblers Association said: "People are not coming to
Scotland and the hills, restaurants and bed and breakfasts are empty at a time
when they should be full."

Yesterday, First Minister Henry McLeish tried to repair the damage, telling
MSPs: "Scotland is not a no-go area. It is open for business."

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              233 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                 March 5, 2001

UK goes on terror alert after BBC bomb <> UK goes on terror alert;
  Incident part of 'murderous attacks'

LENGTH: 579 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, early
yesterday morning was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the
Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti
-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,"
Mr Fry said.

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted.

Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC building
and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs of high
explosives damaged nearby buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving one railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH - that was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the
road with its headlights on.

It had been bought by a man who spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer
in Edmonton, north London, for (GBP) 300 on Saturday morning. He was white,
about 30 years old and 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
device placed on a railway line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry could not say what type of high explosive was used in the attack but said
it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland.

Urging the public to be vigilant, he said: "Colleagues in the RUC would probably
say the numbers are in the hundreds but growing, and that is a worrying trend.

"It is evidence of their willingness through this campaign, despite the peace
process, to bring their murderous attacks to the mainland and to London."

Police could not rule out a connection between the BBC explosion and the blast
at a Territorial Army barracks in London that blinded and maimed cadet Stephen
Menary (14) on February 21.

A controlled explosion was carried out yesterday on a suspect vehicle near
London's Victoria Station.

Downing Street branded the BBC bombing a "cowardly act", saying: "Those
responsible can be in no doubt as to our determination to track them down and
bring them to justice.

"There are those outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the
clock back to the days before the Good Friday Agreement."

The bomb could have been planted as revenge for last October's BBC Panorama
programme which investigated the Omagh bombing, the worst atrocity in the 30
years of the Troubles.

Mr Fry said: "It could be retaliation. I cannot ignore that possibility as being
a motive for this attack."

Northern Ireland First Minister David Trimble believed the Real IRA had targeted
London because of recent failed attacks in Ebrington barracks in Londonderry and
Claudy RUC station.

"So these actions may be designed to try to destabilise and frustrate the
efforts of the Government to secure the peace process," he said.


LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              234 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

BLAST AT THE BBC MAY BE REVENGE ATTACK

BYLINE: Helen William And Jo Willey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 514 words


GREAT Britain was put on high alert for terrorist attacks yesterday after a car
bomb exploded outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast early yesterday outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west
London, was part of a campaign of "murderous attacks" by the Real IRA, said
Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the 1998 Omagh bombing in which
29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,"
Mr Fry said.

The bomb could have been planted as revenge for last October's BBC Panorama
programme which investigated the Omagh bombing, the worst atrocity in 30 years
of the troubles.

Mr Fry said: "It could be retaliation.

"I cannot ignore that possibility as being a motive for this attack."

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying that a bomb had
been planted.

Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC building
and the homes of local residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10
-20lbs of high explosive damaged nearby buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving a railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH.

It was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the road with
its headlights on.

The taxi had been bought by a man - who spoke with a Northern Ireland accent -
from a dealer in Edmonton, north London, for pounds 300 on Saturday morning.

He was white, about 30 years old, 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a
baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
controlled explosion on a railway line at Acton and the mortar attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry could not say what type of high explosive was used in the attack but said
that it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland.

Urging the public to be vigilant, he said: "Colleagues in the RUC would probably
say the numbers are in the hundreds but growing, slowly but growing, and that is
a worrying trend.

"It is evidence of their willingness through this campaign, despite the peace
process, to bring their murderous attacks to the mainland and to London."

Police could not rule out a connection between the BBC explosion and the blast
at a Territorial Army barracks in London that blinded and maimed cadet Stephen
Menary, 14, on February 21.

Downing Street branded the BBC bombing a "cowardly act", saying: "Those
responsible can be in no doubt as to our determination to track them down and
bring them to justice.

"There are those outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the
clock back to the days before the Good Friday Agreement."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AFTERMATH: a BBC TV image of the radio- controlled robot and the
car-bomb scene; MURDER CAR: anti-terrorist officer Alan Fry with a picture of a
taxi like the one used by the bombers; SHOCK WAVES: some of the damage done to
the BBC TV building in west London

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              235 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

OMAGH GANG BOMBS BEEB;
 REAL IRA REVENGE FOR PANORAMA

BYLINE: Mark Mcgivern

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 389 words


TERRORIST hardliners carried out the bomb attack on the BBC in revenge for a
probe into the Omagh atrocity, it was claimed last night.

The blast sent an orange fireball over the London skyline after the blast at the
BBC Television Centre just after midnight.

A controlled explosion was carried out on another suspicious car in Buckingham
Palace Road, London, also blamed on the dissident Real IRA.

Fears of a twin terror threat on mainland Britain were growing last night after
police said a top Provisional IRA team had also been plotting an attack.

A 23-year-old man was detained near the Parachute Regiment barracks in
Colchester, Essex, on Tuesday.

He was described by security services as "a Provisional IRA quartermaster".

A second man, who escaped, was also said to be a convicted Provo terrorist.

The discovery sent shock waves through Downing Street because the Provos are
supposed to be on a ceasefire.

A senior security source said: "We think the Provisional IRA team may have been
hoping to launch some kind of spectacular before the election.

"It means we are now under immediate threat from two separate Irish Republican
groups on the mainland."

Professor Paul Wilkinson, from St Andrews University, said the BBC attack was
almost certainly the work of the dissident Real IRA, sparked off by the BBC
Panorma aired last October into the atrocity in which 29 people were killed.

"I think this very courageous documentary would have angered the dissidents," he
said.

Miraculously, only one man was slightly injured in the BBC attack, despite the
force of the blast from a 20lb Semtex device planted in a cab.

It smashed windows at the centre and rocking homes a mile away from Television
Centre in London's west end.

A Metropolitan Police bomb disposal team was at the scene within 20 minutes and
were due to attempt a controlled explosion when the bomb exploded.

The blast severely damaged the BBC building and the White City tube station
opposite. The cab was completely destroyed.

Yesterday Scotland Yard warned the nation to brace itself for more attacks.

Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry head of the Anti-Terrorist squad said:
"We are in the middle of a terrorist campaign by ruthless people and I fear we
will see more attacks in the coming weeks."

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              236 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 5, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Terror red alert as BBC bombed - Be vigilant, public urged, after IRA attack TV
centre

BYLINE: Evening Chronicle

SECTION: WORLD TONIGHT, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 373 words

Britain was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.The blast outside BBC Television Centre in
Wood Lane, west London, yesterday was part of an ongoing campaign of murderous
attacks by the Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of
the Anti-Terrorist Branch.The dissident terror group was responsible for the
August, 1998, Omagh bombing in which 29 died."It is quite clear that we are
dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared to use ruthless tactics
without any care for the consequences of their actions," Mr Fry said.Police
arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a London
hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted.Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC
building and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs
of high explosives damaged nearby buildings.Experts were trying to conduct a
controlled explosion when the bomb detonated, leaving one railway worker
injured.The device was packed inside a taxi parked outside the BBC entrance on
the wrong side of the road with its lights on. It had been bought by a man who
spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer in north London for
£300.Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge,
a device placed on a rail line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building in London. Mr Fry said it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist
cells on the mainland.Urging the public to be vigilant, he said: "Coll-eagues in
the RUC would say the numbers are in the hundreds but growing, slowly but
growing, and that is a worrying trend."It is evidence of their willingness
through this campaign, despite the peace process, to bring their murderous
attacks to the mainland and London."The bomb could have been planted as revenge
for last October's BBC Panorama investigation of the Omagh bombing, the worst
atrocity in 30 years of the Ulster troubles.  A man, 29, from Londonderry was in
court today charged with offences under the Pre-vention of Terrorism Act. Essex
Police said there was nothing to connect him to yesterday's attack.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              237 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                 March 5, 2001

'Real IRA' in car bombing

SECTION: News: OTHER, Pg.5

LENGTH: 73 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in west London early yesterday morning
was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the Real IRA, said
Alan Fry, head of the Anti-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              238 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                        March 5, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Police blame Real IRA for BBC bomb attack - Britain on high alert for terror
campaign

BYLINE: The Journal

SECTION: NATIONAL NEWS, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 648 words

Britain is on high alert for terrorist attacks, after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.Yesterday's blast outside BBC Television
Centre in Wood Lane, west London, was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous
attacks" by the Real IRA, according to Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry,
head of the Anti- Terrorist Branch.The dissident terror group were responsible
for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in which 29 people died.Mr Fry said: "It is
quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared to use
ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions."Police
arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings of the bomb had been received - one
at a London hospital and another at a charity.The prompt action of emergency
services in evacuating the BBC building and homes nearby avoided casualties.The
blast from the 10-20lb of high explosives damaged nearby buildings. Experts were
trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated, leaving one
railway worker with minor injuries.The device was packed inside a red taxi with
a black roof, registration D902 GYH, parked outside the BBC main entrance on the
wrong side of the road with its headlights on.It had been bought by a man who
spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer in Edmonton, London, for £300
on Friday. He was white, aged about 30 and 6ft. He was wearing a short jacket
and a baseball cap. Police are linking the blast to last year's bomb at
Hammersmith Bridge, a controlled explosion on a railway line at Acton and the
mortar attack on the MI6 building at Vauxhall, London.Mr Fry could not say what
type of high explosive was used in yesterday's attack, but said it pointed to a
disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland.Urging the public to be
vigilant, he said: "Colleagues in the RUC would probably say the numbers are in
the hundreds but growing, slowly but growing, and that is a worrying trend."It
is evidence of their willingness through this campaign, despite the peace
process, to bring their murderous attacks to the mainland and to London."Police
could not rule out a connection between the BBC explosion and the blast at a
Territorial Army barracks in London that blinded and maimed cadet Stephen
Menary, 14, on February 21.A controlled explosion was carried out yesterday on a
suspect vehicle near London's Victoria Station.Downing Street branded the BBC
bombing a cowardly act, saying: "Those responsible can be in no doubt as to our
determination to track them down and bring them to justice."There are those
outside the peace process who are set on trying to turn the clock back to the
days before the Good Friday Agreement." The bomb could have been planted in
revenge for October's BBC Panorama programme on the Omagh bombing.Mr Fry said:
"It could be retaliation. I cannot ignore that possibility as being a motive for
this attack."Northern Ireland First Minister David Trimble believed the Real IRA
had targeted London because of recent failed attacks in Ebrington barracks in
Londonderry and Claudy RUC station.He said the bomb may have been planted
because of Government efforts to persuade the mainstream IRA to honour its
obligations on decommissioning and the fact that an election may be coming up
shortly.Mr Trimble said: "These actions may be designed to try to destabilise
and frustrate the efforts of the Government to secure the peace process."He said
there was concern that "on the ground" it was becoming difficult to tell the
difference between the Provisional IRA and the Real IRA.There was evidence of
material and expertise leaking from the Provisionals to dissident republican
groups.Northern Ireland Deputy First Minister Seamus Mallon said: "Those
responsible for this attack have no role to play in the creation of a future
free from violence and the hatred of the past."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2001

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              239 of 243 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 5, 2001, Monday

TERRORISTS BLAST THE BBC: THEY'RE BACK;
 IRA TERROR RETURNS TO OUR STREETS

BYLINE: JEFF EDWARDS CHIEF CRIME CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: 3 Edition; NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 89 words

HIGHLIGHT: WRECKAGE: Burned out car; STREET OF FIRE: Flames light up cars and
trees yesterday seconds after the Real IRA bomb hidden in a London taxi explodes
outside the BBC Television Centre injuring one person


THIS is the horrifying moment IRA terror returned to the heart of Britain.

The blast from a 20lb Semtex bomb hidden in a taxi ripped out the front of
London's BBC Television Centre yesterday morning.

Miraculously only one person was hurt. The bomb was planted by dissident group
the Real IRA, who caused carnage at Omagh.

But it is feared Britain is now facing more terror attacks.

A senior security source said: "We are experiencing a new terror campaign. And
we expect more bombs."

FULL STORY: PAGES 2,3&6

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              240 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                             March 5, 2001, Tuesday

UK IS ON ALERT FOR TERRORIST ATTACKS.

BYLINE: Helen William

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 384 words


BRITAIN was on high alert for terrorist attacks today after a car bomb exploded
outside the BBC's London headquarters.

The blast outside BBC Television Centre in Wood Lane, west London, early
yesterday morning was part of an ongoing campaign of "murderous attacks" by the
Real IRA, said Deputy Assistant Commissioner Alan Fry, head of the Anti
-Terrorist Branch.

The dissident terror group was responsible for the August 1998 Omagh bombing in
which 29 people were killed.

"It is quite clear that we are dealing with ruthless terrorists who are prepared
to use ruthless tactics without any care for the consequences of their actions,
" Mr Fry said.

Police arrived at the BBC after two coded warnings were received, one at a
London hospital and another at a charitable organisation, saying a bomb had been
planted.

Only the prompt action of the emergency services in evacuating the BBC building
and nearby residents avoided certain death as the blast from 10-20lbs of high
explosives damaged nearby buildings.

Experts were trying to conduct a controlled explosion when the bomb detonated,
leaving one railway worker with minor injuries.

The device was packed inside a red taxi with a black roof - registration D902
GYH - that was parked outside the BBC main entrance on the wrong side of the
road with its headlights on.

It had been bought by a man who spoke with a Northern Irish accent from a dealer
in Edmonton, north London, for pounds 300 on Saturday morning. He was white,
about 30 years old and 6ft tall, wearing a short jacket and a baseball cap.

Detectives are linking the blast to last year's bomb at Hammersmith Bridge, a
device placed on a railway line at Acton and the rocket attack on the MI6
building at Vauxhall, London.

Mr Fry could not say what type of high explosive was used in the attack but said
it pointed to a disturbing growth of terrorist cells on the mainland. He said:
"Colleagues in the RUC would probably say the numbers are in the hundreds but
growing, slowly but growing, and that is a worrying trend."

A 29-year-old man from Londonderry was due to appear in court today charged with
offences under the Prevention of Terrorism Act, Essex Police said. A spokesman
said there was nothing to link the man to the attack on the BBC.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              241 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          February 21, 2001, Thursday

REPORTER GOT INTO BASES.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 96 words


AN investigation has been ordered by the Ministry of Defence following claims
that a reporter breached security on six different military bases.

The Mirror said an undercover journalist gained entry to six high security

sites across Britain, raising serious concerns about the safety of servicemen
and women from terrorist attacks.

The paper said its reporter, posing as a Naafi worker, was able to walk around
the bases unchallenged and even had a cup of coffee in the officers' wardroom at
Scotland's Faslane naval base, home to the Trident nuclear submarine.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              242 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               February 21, 2001

Defence probe into security breaches

SECTION: News, Pg.11

LENGTH: 152 words


AN investigation has been ordered by the Defence Ministry following claims that
a reporter breached security on six different military bases.

A national newspaper said an undercover journalist gained entry to six high
security sites across Britain, raising serious concerns about the safety of
servicemen and women from terrorist attacks.

The paper said its reporter, posing as a NAAFI worker, was able to walk around
the bases unchallenged and even had a cup of coffee in the officers' wardroom at
Scotland's Faslane naval base, home to the Trident nuclear submarine.

A spokeswoman said the Ministry regarded security as a top priority. The alleged
breaches would be looked into.

Using a pass the reporter entered MoD headquarters at Whitehall, Wellington
Barracks, London, Chelsea and Hyde Park Barracks, Faslane Naval base, Scotland
and an infantry training camp in the Brecon Beacons.

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              243 of 243 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          February 14, 2001, Wednesday

Four held in raid on suspected terrorists

BYLINE: Michael Evans and Michael Horsnell

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 492 words


FOUR suspected Islamic terrorists believed to be planning attacks in Britain and
Europe were arrested by police in London yesterday after months of covert
surveillance by Special Branch and MI5 officers.

The four men, three Algerians and a Jordanian, suspected of plotting terrorist
attacks in the name of the Islamic jihad (holy war), were seized in dawn raids
across the capital.

Although no guns or explosives were found, security sources said the four men
had been the objects of a surveillance operation, lasting several months,
because of intelligence indications that they were involved in preparing attacks
in Britain and Europe.

The sources said that there was no question of concentrating on the Islamic
community. The four men had been watched and followed after an intelligence
tip-off. Just before Christmas a number of Islamic jihad terrorist suspects were
arrested in other European countries, and the British authorities were alerted.

The suspects arrested yesterday at four addresses in North and West London are
not believed to be linked to the terrorist organisation led by Osama bin Laden,
the exiled millionaire Saudi dissident who runs a network of agents from
Afghanistan. The suspects, 31, 33, 38 and 40, are not known to have any specific
affiliation to a known terrorist group.

One source said there was no indication of who or what targets might have been
selected, but it was believed they would have been "in Europe and probably
Britain".

London has been relatively free of Middle Eastern terrorism for some years,
although the police and MI5 have had to keep a close watch on individuals and
groups in Britain suspected of having links with terrorists and extremists
abroad.The last major Middle Eastern terrorist attack was in 1994 when a car
bomb exploded outside the Israeli Embassy in Kensington, the day after Israel
and Jordan signed a peace declaration. Two Palestinians were jailed for 20 years
for conspiring to bomb the embassy.

The threat of Islamic terrorism has risen after the near collapse of the Middle
East peace process and the renewed uprising by Palestinians against Israel in
recent months.

The four suspects arrested yesterday under Section 14 of the 1989 Prevention of
Terrorism Act were questioned by anti-terrorist police throughout the day. It is
believed they were being held at the high security Paddington Green police
station in West London.

Police searched a total of six homes and one business address, and a fifth man
was detained in connection with alleged immigration offences.

The operation was carefully co-ordinated between Scotland Yard's Anti Terrorist
Branch, Special Branch and MI5. The police officers who carried out the arrest
were unarmed. A police spokesman said: "The operation is not linked to any
unsolved terrorism act. I am not prepared to discuss whether the arrests are in
connection with any ongoing or previous operations."


LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 501-743
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:19:47

