



Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:15:00
Send To:







Terms: (terror! )


Source: UK Publications
Project ID: None



                               1 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                       EVENING CHRONICLE (Newcastle, UK)

                       January 1, 2002, Tuesday Edition 1

Britain's peace role is praised

BYLINE: By the Evening Chronicle

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 181 words




Britain is recognised as a "powerful force for good" around the globe in the
wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said
today.

In a New Year address, Mr Straw said the US suicide hijackings, which triggered
the war on terrorism, had shone a light on the "dedication and professionalism"
of the staff of the Foreign and Commonwealth Office.

"September 11 had a deep impact on all of us," he said.

"Yet in the days that followed those harrowing events in the United States, few
of us could have imagined that, on this New Year's Day, so many people would be
freed of fear and oppression and that the Union flag would once more fly over
the British Embassy in Kabul."

He spoke after Lord Justice Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice, voiced "concern" over
anti-terror laws brought in at home in response to the September 11 attacks.

The moves which include detention of suspected foreign terrorists without trial,
should last no longer than "absolutely necessary", he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2002 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                               2 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               December 31, 2001

Truth behind the 'anthrax hysteria';

BYLINE: Kieran McDaid

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 699 words


After the September 11 attacks on America the word anthrax has entered everyday
vocabulary. As Kieran McDaid reports a new book, Plague Wars, has proven to be
one of the most revealing on biological warfare

THIS year has seen the word 'anthrax' enter into common usage. Before September
11 it used to be a term confined solely to action-adventure movies but in recent
months in workplaces across the globe conversations have turned to the
likelihood of receiving packages of white powder.

Anthrax scares around the world spread to Northern Ireland in October, when the
Northern Ireland assembly, the head post office in Belfast, a company in Derry -
and even a grandmother in west Belfast - were 'targeted' in hoax alerts.

The world has been on edge since the terrorist attacks on America on September
11.

The anthrax scares in Northern Ireland followed alerts across America and Europe
which were fuelled by fears that terrorists could launch biological attacks.

A new book by Tom Mangold - a senior correspondent with the BBC's Panorama
programme - and Jeff Goldberg - a Washington-based journalist - exposes the
truth behind the hysteria which surrounds the issue.

The book tells of a war game staged in America in 1998 which describes the
chilling consequences of a well-planned terrorist attack launched by Saddam
Hussein on the US and Britain using smallpox.

As the attack on Houston airport develops, the west finds itself impotent to
respond effectively and America and Britain are brought to a complete
standstill.

This scenario mirrors the panic which has brought several cities to a halt
throughout Britain and Europe in recent months.

The constant fear of biological attack is epitomised by a special black van,
manned by Secret Service agents, carrying state-ofthe-art equipment which
accompanies the current US president's motorcade everywhere.

Researched across four continents, the authors secured the cooperation of the
American department of defence, the United Nations and various civilian and
military intelligence agencies.

The result is a definitive expose of the terrible threat that biological warfare
now poses.

"The world is just beginning to catch on that the use of deadly bacteria and
exotic viruses to destroy, maim, infect or incapacitate has the potential to do
more damage than nuclear weapons, " the book says.

"It cannot be properly banned by treaty; it cannot be controlled; and it
requires little investment to refine. It is the poor man's atom bomb. The
battlefields of the deadly biological menace are now highly topical and it is
time for the world to be warned, for it stands close to the threshold of
something new and terrible."

The book confirms:

n in the former Soviet Union the military has perfected smallpox, anthrax and
plague as biological warheads on intercontinental missiles that can reach
London, New York and Los Angeles - there is no evidence that Russia has
destroyed the technology n in South Africa and Zimbabwe, biological weapons have
already been used to kill innocent civilians n in Iraq, a covert offensive
biological warfare programme capable of delivering anthrax through 'drones of
death' threatens neighbouring countries and will soon threaten the whole region.

"Biological terrorism - the use of deadly bacteria and exotic viruses to
destroy, maim, infect or incapacitate the enemy - is now widely acknowledged to
be inevitable, " the book claims.

A millionth of a gram of inhaled anthrax, delivered through a pursesized
atomiser spray, kills one person.

A mere kilogram, delivered through an ordinary crop duster, kills an entire
city.

Recipes for making biological weapons are available in books and on the
internet.

Plague Wars is one of the most revealing books ever published on the subject. It
is a factual account that reads like fiction; a taut investigation behind the
headlines which identifies what the authors refer to as the real Plague Warriors
- those behind the new weapons of horror and the men and women dedicated to
preventing them from claiming lives.

nDEFINITIVE EXPOSE: Plague Wars, a factual account that reads like fiction

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARY TIMES: FBI workers deal with an anthrax attack on a US post
office following the September 11 attacks on America

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                               3 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 30, 2001

Record rise in hard drugs smuggled into UK

BYLINE: by Tony Thompson Crime Correspondent

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 684 words


RECORD quantities of hard drugs are being smuggled into Britain as dealers
attempt to cater for the party season when at least four million people are
expected to take an illegal substance.

Although Christmas and New Year traditionally generate a rise in smuggling, the
scale of the increase during the past three months has alarmed Customs
officials.

'The traffickers appear to be getting bolder and operating on a grander scale,'
said a source. 'What we are seeing is an increase both in the number of attempts
and the size of shipments we are seizing.'

Unofficial estimates suggest the amount of cocaine being brought into the
country has increased by as much as 25 per cent in the last quarter of the year.

Many Customs officers believe this could be linked to the terrorist attacks of
11 September with dealers attempting to take advantage of the fact that
officials are being diverted to look for terrorists rather than drug couriers.
They say dealers are targeting Britain - now the fastest growing cocaine market
in Europe - because prices here are twice those in the US. There have also been
significant seizures of ecstasy and amphetamines.

Earlier this month 25 drug mules who had swallowed packages of cocaine were
arrested after stepping off a flight from Jamaica at Heathrow. It was the
largest number of couriers ever intercepted on a single flight.

A week later a further 16 were arrested at Gatwick, again following a flight
from Jamaica. Further parcels con taining cocaine were found on the aircraft. In
all, drugs worth pounds 250,000 were seized.

Officers from the Metropolitan Police's Operation Trident, which targets
black-on-black crime, had received word that dealers were attempting to corner
the cocaine market in time for Christmas.

A Customs spokesman said: 'We have not seen anything like this. Jamaica has been
one of the key sources for smugglers bringing drugs into Britain, but the
numbers we are seeing on flights represent a serious development.'

Alarm bells first began to sound in October when there were three major
seizures: pounds 100m of cocaine was captured after being thrown from a plane at
Southend Airport in Essex, pounds 12m worth of the drug was found on a lorry in
Hertfordshire and pounds 5m worth of heroin was recovered during a house raid in
Greenwich, south east London.

Several police forces have launched drugs crackdowns in recent weeks. Last week
more than 200 officers from Surrey police, including specialist firearms units
and dog handlers, carried out a series of co-ordinated raids on suspected major
drug dealers across two counties as part of Operation Unify. Some 18 people were
arrested and detectives also recovered firearms and a large quantity of class A
drugs.

During the same week, police in Thames Valley raided a house in a village in
Berkshire and recovered pounds 5m worth of amphetamines and pounds 250,000 worth
of cannabis. Raids on crack houses in Hackney have resulted in 53 arrests
including former British welterweight champion Kirkland Lang.

The Government has launched a pounds 1.5m advertising campaign aimed at
preventing children from taking drugs. Home Office minister Bob Ainsworth said:
'We have launched this initiative in an attempt to reach the 220,000 16-19 year
olds who have told us they use Class A drugs at least once a year.'

Ministers are particularly concerned about a new variant of ecstasy nicknamed
Death after being linked to several deaths in Australia.

The concern over hard drugs comes amid a relaxation of police attitudes towards
soft drugs. Last week Scotland Yard announced that a pilot scheme in Lambeth,
south London, which saw those caught with cannabis warned rather than prosecuted
is to be extended.

Two reports suggest the scheme, intended to allow police to focus on harder
drugs, has been a success. A similar scheme could be in place across the whole
of London by the end of next year, smoothing the path for the Home Secretary,
David Blunkett, to press ahead with plans to reclassify cannabis from Class B to
Class C.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               December 30, 2001

THE MAKING OF A TERRORIST: British device senses explosives: UK airports build
on impressive safety record

BYLINE: Joanna Walters

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 526 words


THE NARROWLY foiled attempt to blow up a commercial jet last week has yet again
left travellers wondering if air travel can ever truly be made safe from
terrorist attacks.

The good news from the UK authorities and air industry this weekend is that
Britain's airports and airlines are among the safest in the world and improving.

They are certainly deemed to be the most heavily protected in Europe and senior
industry insiders this weekend boasted that both the security technology and
personnel deployed in Britain are better than France.

The bad news, of course, is that nothing can be guaranteed secure against
determined fanatics and Britain, which is especially conscious of trying to keep
some of the world's busiest airports flowing and a successful aviation industry
profitable, has not done as much as it could to tighten security in the past
decade.

But senior industry sources told The Observer last night that Britain's main
airports have recently begun to be kitted out with extra security technology
that they say would have picked up Richard Reid's shoe bomb.

The bomb detection equipment, which is understood not to exist at Paris's
Charles de Gaulle airport where Reid boarded, began to be installed at UK
airports at a cost of tens of millions of pounds shortly before 11 September, as
part of a general stepping up of security measures.

But its deployment has been speeded up since those terrorist attacks in the US
and is understood to be operational at Manchester, Birmingham and all BAA's
airports, which include Heathrow, Gatwick, Stansted, Edinburgh and Glasgow - and
likely to spread nationwide in the coming months.

A senior industry source said: 'Our security at UK airports is better than in
most other countries.

'We are not complacent here, but we have ways of detecting plastic explosives
both on people and in hand baggage - with police sniffer dogs, extra
surveillance and a special, hand-held gadget.'

The source said the gad get is a chemical-analysis 'wand' that, when passed over
hand luggage, will pick up the tiniest trace of explosives that may have been
left on the baggage.

Not all hand luggage is given this extra screening, but bags belonging to anyone
acting suspiciously or with dubious credentials would be picked out by airport
security staff for the additional check - probably without the suspect's
knowledge, the source said.

'Even if someone like Reid had his shoes put on by someone else and had scrubbed
his hands, we are confident our detection equipment would still pick up traces
of explosive on his hand luggage,' he said.

However, Philip Baum, ex-head of security for US airline TWA and editor of
industry journal Aviation Security International , said airports, including
Britain's, were failing to co-ordinate security properly between police, airline
and airport staff. He said he believed the Reid incident could have happened out
of a UK airport.

Norman Shanks, former head of security at airports group BAA, said the key to
safety was better pay and specialist training for airport security personnel in
analysis of passenger behaviour.


LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 29, 2001

Red Cross to drop disaster appeals in favour of all year fundraising

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis and Tim Radford

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 555 words


The British Red Cross is to raise money all year round instead of campaigning in
response to specific disasters, it said yesterday.

The aid organisation, which has depended on high-profile disaster appeals for a
large part of its 130-year history, will now place all its money in a single
rapid-response fund. This will allow donations to be divided between
well-publicised tragedies, such as famine in Afghanistan, and those disasters
that do not warrant their own appeals, such as last year's floods in Britain.

A spokesman said the fundraising change was a response to public reaction
following September 11. Although the British and US Red Cross ran no specific
appeal after the terrorist attacks on New York, thousands of people called the
charity's helplines asking to pledge money. Over pounds 20m was donated in the
first 24 hours in the US alone, and hundreds of thousands of pounds in Britain.

A spokesman said: "We had never seen a response like it. People were calling
saying 'We know your reputation. We trust you to make the best use of our
money.'

"By launching a single fund, we can now distribute resources to areas most
urgently in need of help, especially smaller disasters that dont receive media
recognition."

In recent years the British Red Cross sent aid teams to several disaster zones
without running appeals, such as earthquake-torn Peru, flooded villages in
Mozambique and flooded areas of Britain. A balance of around pounds 100,000 will
be held in the new fund for similar emergency responses.

Public donations account for 70% of British Red Cross funds. The latest survey
of donors showed people were happy to give funds not earmarked for specific
events because they "knew and trusted" the organisation.

Jeremy Hughes, director of income generation for the British Red Cross, said:
"What we are hearing is that the public wants to help, yet with the continuing
and mounting disasters around the world, it is often difficult to decide which
cause to give to. People know and trust the Red Cross, and this fund is really
saying: you can be sure well use your donation to bring help to those whose
lives have been torn apart, leave it to us in the knowledge that we will spend
your money wisely.

Jamie Richardson, a Red Cross emergency worker, said: "Standing in a flooded
village with people who have lost everything, you have to react fast. You cannot
rely upon the media to generate public response. For every headline- making
disaster there are many other emergencies that the public may never be aware
of."

The aid organisation will continue to run certain high-profile campaigns, such
as the aid to Afghanistan appeal, alongside the new fund.

The Red Cross counted more than 750 disasters worldwide last year, compared with
395 in 1994 using the same definitions.

Although the number of catastrophic earthquakes and volcanic eruptions on
average is the same in any one year, the number of potential victims has been
increasing at almost 80m a year, because of population growth.

Natural disasters caused at least 25,000 deaths worldwide in 2001, more than
double the previous year, the world's largest reinsurer, Munich Re, said
yesterday. It put the total economic losses at Dollars 36bn (pounds 25m) and
blamed continued global climate change.


LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          December 29, 2001, Saturday

MP ATTACKS ASSEMBLY OVER TOURISM;
 POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 383 words


A GOVERNMENT minister has criticised the devolved Welsh and Scottish assemblies
saying co-operation on tourism had "a long way to go."

Pontypridd MP Kim Howells said, "One would have thought the obvious thing to do,
for the devolved bodies, was work as closely as possible with the Government in
order to get the best possible return on precious taxpayers' money and at the
same time do the best possible job for promoting Britain.

"I think there is a long way to go in terms of co-operation between the three
countries."

He also attacked some seaside hotels as "absolutely appalling" despite saying
the tourism industry was "important" to Britain.

Tourism minister Dr Howells said the industry had all too often "thrown in the
towel" and it was now time for change.

"I am one of those people who have to go to political conventions in seaside
resorts and quite frankly some of the accommodation is absolutely appalling. It
has got to change, " he said.

It is the latest outburst from Dr Howells who has recently criticised folk
singers, the British film industry and grey-suited politicians.

The Pontypridd MP said tourism had suffered a "testing" year following the foot
-and-mouth epidemic and the September 11 terror attacks but warned industry
bosses, "If we are going to attract people and keep them in this country we have
got to have a high quality product.

"I think the industry as a whole has woken up to the fact that all too often it
has thrown in the towel to the Floridas, to the Spains, when it came to properly
packaging good high quality products and that has been the problem for a very
long time."

He denied he was downgrading the British tourism industry, saying it had grown
at an "enormous rate" over the past 20 years.

"It is one of the most important and one of the successful industries in the
country.

"It has had a very hard year, it has been tested in a way which it certainly has
not been tested since the Gulf War."

Dr Howells said tourism officials should not "panic, " adding, "People will come
back.

"What we have got to do is make sure that we have got a product and a system for
allowing people to take holidays in this country which will make them come back.
That is the big task that we face at the moment."

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                               7 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 28, 2001

Terror alert in Britain: Strategy: Yard sends officers to Israel: Advice sought
on countering suicide attacks

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 388 words


Scotland Yard has sent officers to Israel to learn how to deal with the threat
and aftermath of suicide bomb attacks.

Although there is no intelligence to suggest that London is in imminent danger
of such an attack, the Metropolitan police believes it has to consider all
possibilities, especially as Britain has sided so strongly with the US during
the conflict in Afghanistan.

The decision to seek advice from Israeli security forces was taken by Assistant
Commissioner David Veness, head of special operations, who is developing an
anti-terrorist strategy to deal with a post-September 11 world.

He sent Deputy Assistant Commissioner Barbara Wilding, the head of the Yards
intelligence gathering and surveillance operations, to the Middle East to meet
senior officials from Shin Bet, Israels counter-intelligence and internal
security service.

Irish terrorism is still considered the main threat to the capital, but officers
recognise that dissident republicans play by a "different set of rules".

"What September 11 brought home to us is that we have to deal with terrorists
who are not worried about killing themselves, said a Met source. "They dont have
to think about escape strategies. Weve had to accept that the threat now is more
varied than it ever was before. In that sense, weve had to start again and
consider all possibilities.

"We dont have any intelligence to suggest that London is being specifically
targeted at the moment, but the FBI didnt have any intelligence before September
11.

Increased surveillance of suspected Islamist terrorists and high-profile
policing at likely targets are options being considered.

In the weeks after September 11, the Met put an extra 1,500 officers on the
streets of the capital to provide "high-visibility reassurance and deterrence.
Though this number has dropped gradually, the Met believes that a permanent
increase in the number of officers patrolling the streets is an inevitable
consequence of what happened in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

* A man was detained for two hours at San Antonio airport, Texas, yesterday when
residue of an explosive was detected on his shoes. He was released when security
officials decided he had picked up traces of the explosive inadvertently during
a recent visit to eastern Europe.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               December 27, 2001

US cheerleaders fly in for New Year

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 140 words


THOUSANDS of young American cheerleaders, undeterred by fears of terrorist
attacks, are flying into Britain to help London celebrate the New Year.

More than 3,500 Americans will arrive on more than 30 flights today and tomorrow
to perform in London's New Year's Day Parade.

Twenty-four marching bands will join thousands from home and abroad to welcome
in 2002 in the most spectacular street parade of its kind in the world. The
parade, which celebrates its 16th birthday this year, will be the first event of
2002 commemorating the Queen's Golden Jubilee.

Performers from Austria, Canada, Hawaii, the West Indies, the US and Germany
will join others from the UK to form a parade of 10,000, who will march before a
crowd of up to one million Londoners.

Also taking part will be more than 100 street entertainers.


LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               9 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 24, 2001

SADDAM'S SQUAD OF HITMEN ON THE LOOSE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 423 words


A WORLDWIDE alert is on for a hit squad of 30 Iraqi assassins ordered to carry
out terrorist attacks for Saddam Hussein.

The fanatics - described as "one-man killing machines" - are reported to be
roaming Western cities and could strike at any time.

Intelligence chiefs say the men are the elite of a 1,200-strong Iraqi commando
strike force and are specially trained in sabotage, urban warfare, hijacking and
assassination. The soldiers have all been given new identities, backed by false
passports from countries outside Iraq, including the United Arab Emirates.

The existence of the death squad, nicknamed the Dirty 30 by CIA and FBI agents,
was revealed for the first time by a former army boss in Iraq's Mukhabarat
intelligence service.

He has told CIA chiefs how the unit was the brainchild of Saddam Hussein's son
Uday and was presented to the Iraqi leader on his birthday in April last year.

He proudly boasted about the lethal efficiency of the Dirty 30 by playing his
father a video of the men launching an attack on a mock-up of a US Navy warship.

The squad is said to have undergone rigorous training in terrorism at a training
base outside Baghdad.

Intelligence agencies fear members may have been dispatched across the world
ready to carry out attacks once Saddam gives the order.

Britain's intelligence services, MI5 and MI6, have been warned about the
potential danger to UK targets.

The CIA is investigating the possibility that some of the death squad had links
with hijackers involved in the September 11 atrocities.

Mohammed Atta, leader of the September 11 outrages and his accomplice Ziad
Jarrah, are said to have met Iraqi agents in the runup to the attacks.

Atta is known to have twice met Iraqi agents in Prague before the US outrage.

A security source said: "Iraq is well known to have engaged in State-sponsored
terrorism in the past.

Intelligence about the activities of this specially-trained unit could prove
vital in the international war against terrorism.

"These individuals may call themselves commandos or soldiers but, from what we
have now been told, they are rightly regarded as highly dangerous criminals".

The cargo ship seized by anti-terrorist police is likely to remain off the Isle
of Wight for the "foreseeable future", police said yesterday.

Detailed examination of the Nisha, suspected of carrying terrorist material,
could take several weeks to complete. It was seized in the Channel on Friday,
but nothing has so far been found.

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              10 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               December 22, 2001

BLAIR PUTS BRITAIN ON 'TOP LEVEL VIGILANCE' AS TERROR FEARS GROW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 193 words


TONY Blair last night warned that Britain must remain on "top level vigilance"
for terror attacks in coming weeks.

He added that he would "not hesitate" to take action against any potential
threat to the UK after the Royal Navy intercepted the cargo ship.

The Prime Minister stressed that even if no terror materials were found on the
ship it was still right to seize it.

Mr Blair, who was speaking at a press conference with Russian premier Vladimir
Putin at RAF Halton, Bucks, said:

"I can simply say this - that we remain on top level of vigilance throughout
these coming weeks and even if the risk is only a potential risk, we will not
hesitate to take any action that we think necessary in order to investigate any
potential threat."

He added: "This is a time that even if it is with an excess of caution that we
act, I think it is important to do so."

Earlier, Mr Blair praised Mr Putin's role in the war against terrorism and
announced that Britain and Russia would set up a working group to discuss the
problem.

The unprecedented working group will focus on MI6 and the KGB sharing
intelligence on terrorist activities.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              11 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 22, 2001

New terror threat to Britain: Security services deliver stark warning of risk,
including from nuclear and chemical attack

BYLINE: Jeevan Vasagar

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 679 words


The scale of the risk to Britain posed by international terrorism emerged for
the first time last night in an assessment from the security services.

The detailed account of how the country is vulnerable to lightning attacks came
during a court hearing in which a London-based Moroccan man was remanded in
custody under the new anti-terrorism laws on the grounds of national security.

The document used to support the government's case that Djamel Ajouaou should be
kept in custody concludes with a stark warning: "The presence of extremists in
the United Kingdom at this time and for the foreseeable future creates a
situation of public emergency threatening the life of the nation."

It lists specific risks:

* A nuclear attack "which would have a devastating effect on the UK";

* An attack on the London Underground using a small, unsophisticated, improvised
explosive device;

* A chemical or biological attack, for example, on the tube.

"Biological or chemical attacks although potentially less devastating would lead
to widespread public alarm and potentially many fatalities," the document says.

A Home Office statement warns that because of its close alliance to America,
Britain is vulnerable to a "nuclear attack, an attack on the London Underground
of the type used in Paris in 1995 N (or) a chemical or biological attack, for
example on the underground".

There is also the risk of a September 11-style attack involving hijacked
airliners. Raised security standards have made such an attack more difficult,
the document says, but "protection depends on their uniform application
internationally".

The 20-page document, placed before the court on behalf of the home secretary,
David Blunkett, refers to intelligence warnings of further attacks and expresses
the fear that if Osama bin Laden were killed, "the UK alongside the US will be a
target for vengeance".

It said the fact that Britain was a close ally of the US and that British troops
were involved in the military action in Afghanistan and in seeking out Bin Laden
made Britain potentially more vulnerable: "Whether he is killed or not Bin
Laden's allies need urgent ly to re-establish their capability and intent in
order to make up the ground they have lost since September 11: they will seek to
do this through terrorist attacks.

Al-Qaida supporters in Britain had played a role in four terrorist attacks
foiled by police, the document disclosed.

But it warns that efforts to deal with terrorists in Britain beyond these
arrests had been "ineffective". "There remain in the UK a number of foreign
nationals who are suspected of being concerned in the commission, preparation or
instigation of acts of international terrorism." Security measures had been
ineffective because the suspects arrested were released when the crown offered
no evidence, or the suspects had chosen to leave Britain but continued to pose a
threat, or because under human rights law they could not be deported to
countries where they might be ill-treated.

The document says that the four terrorist attacks foiled by police and
intelligence work were to have been carried out by "overlapping networks closely
linked to al-Qaida".

* In December 1999 a group of individuals in Jordan planned to attack a series
of targets there frequented by American and Israeli tourists.

* In the same month, Ahmed Ressam was stopped on the border between Canada and
the US with a large quantity of explosive. He intended to attack Los Angeles
airport.

* In December 2000 a group in Frankfurt was arrested in possession of arms,
chemicals and homemade explosive.

* In September 2001 individuals in a number of European countries, including
Britain, were arrested as they were preparing an attack against US interests in
Paris.

The document notes: "Activity in the UK formed essential building blocks for
each of these frustrated attacks."

Man held under terror law, page 5

War in Afghanistan, pages 14-15

More on Britain after September 11 at guardian.co.uk/ukresponse


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 22, 2001, Saturday Edition 1

Expert warns of Christmas terror attack

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: NEWS, Pg. 32

LENGTH: 151 words


   .




Al Qaida could be planning a "Christmas spectacular" to hit back at the West
after the Taliban's humiliating defeat, defence experts have warned.

The festive period would be prime time for terrorists to strike, because of its
symbolic importance to the UK and its allies, according to former British Army
officer and security expert Mike Yardley. He said: "After being seen to come off
badly in Afghanistan, the network's chiefs will be keen to prove its potency
abroad.

"Defences are liable to be down over the Christmas holiday, making it an ideal
choice for terrorists."

He said an attack might include "exotic" weapons, including the so-called dirty
bomb.

This uses conventional means to spread large doses of radiation.

Britain would be a likely target because of its support in the war against the
Taliban, Mr Yardley said.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              13 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           December 21, 2001, Friday

GIFT JOY FOR AFGHANS;
 HOPE FROM N. WALES CHARITY

BYLINE: Steve Bagnall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 331 words


NORTH Wales charity Operation Christmas Child has delivered a ray of hope to
destitute children in Afghanistan.

Wrexham-based OCC delivered 12,000 shoeboxes packed with gifts to children in
two refugee camps just inside the Afghanistan borders.

OCC founder Dave Cooke said the camps were barren scenes of desolation
sheltering thousands of refugees in the harsh desert.

They had fled the allied bombardment of Afghanistan following the terrorist
attacks in the US.

Mr Cooke, who arrived back in the UK on Wednesday, said: "It is heartbreaking to
see people living in these conditions.

"It is absolutely desolate out here, the worst place I have been to.

"In other places we have been to, the people had something to go back to, but
what have these people got to go back to? Nothing.

"What is amazing was the look on the faces of children as we handed over the
shoe boxes full of gifts.

"The concept of toys and gifts is totally alien to them but these children were
absolutely delighted. It was something that had not happened to them before."

The shoeboxes were airlifted from Britain in an Antonov 124, the world's largest
cargo plane, to bases in Iran.

From there they were taken in trucks to the two camps, one Taliban, one
Mujaheddin.

"We delivered 6,000 boxes each to the two camps. In the Mujaheddin camp, the
reception we received was fantastic, but in the Taliban camp, they were very
wary of us, it was a strange atmosphere there.

"But it has been a ground-breaking trip for us to come over here, and we will be
looking at coming back definitely."

Mr Cooke flew out to Afghanistan to co-ordinate the shoe box drop on Sunday. He
said OCC had taken a gamble.

"We didn't have Iranian visas sorted out, but they wanted us to come over so we
took a chance and flew out. The Iranians have been fantastic."

Earlier in the year OCC co-ordinated a major relief effort to fly blankets,
tents and camp beds out to the refugees.

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              14 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 21, 2001

Christmas shopping, 2001

BYLINE: Jaya Narain

SECTION: Pg. 23

LENGTH: 237 words


MINGLING with office workers and Christmas shoppers, these police officers are
chilling proof of how seriously security chiefs are taking the possibility of a
terror attack in the UK.

Armed with Heckler & Koch MP5 carbines and Glock 9mm pistols, the crack firearms
unit was on high-profile patrol for the first time yesterday.

Such a show of force will continue throughout the festive season in Manchester,
say police, to counter the threat of a terror strike from Moslem fanatics or the
Real IRA.

While armed officers are a familiar sight at airports and in the City of London,
their deployment in Manchester city centre where an IRA bomb caused devastation
five years ago shows that senior officers there are taking no chances.

The tightening of UK security comes just days after U.S. Defence Secretary
Donald Rumsfeld warned that London, Paris or Berlin could be the next terror
targets.

Senior security sources have also warned that, despite recent arrests, the Real
IRA remains a significant threat to mainland Britain.

In Manchester the firearms unit will patrol city centre streets and shopping
centres. Greater Manchester Assistant Chief Constable Med Hughes said: 'There
have been no specific threats against Manchester but we cannot afford to become
complacent.' Yesterday other forces across Britain said they had increased
uniformed patrols but had not deployed armed officers.


LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PREPARED FOR THE WORST: TWO MEMBERS OF THE CRACK FIREARMS UNIT CARRYING
CARBINES AND PISTOLS MIXING WITH THE CROWDS IN MANCHESTER CITY CENTRE YESTERDAY

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              15 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester mercury

                               December 21, 2001

PICTURE: Debbie Allen / 117564-1

BYLINE: C. Fagan

SECTION: News; Other; Others; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 267 words


in training: Janice and Chris Lewin with Hudson, the labrador they've donated
for police work Hudson sniffs out a new role to help police beat terrorism
Hudson the labrador is in training for a very special job with Leicestershire
police - preventing terrorist attacks by sniffing out explosives.

The three-month-old's transformation from family pet to police dog was inspired
by the horror of the September 11 attacks in the United States.

His owners Chris and Janice Lewin, of Burbage, watched the horrors of the terror
attack unfold on their television Mr Lewin, 36, who is a native New Yorker, read
shortly after that police forces in Britain were crying out for canine recruits.

Hudson, named after the river in New York, was one of a litter of seven puppies
owned by the Lewins.

He was chosen for police training because of his alert and curious nature, Mr
Lewin said.

He is now undergoing basic obedience training and will be taught how to do his
special job when he is 12 months old.

The couple visited Hudson and his handler, Pc Steve Spiers, at force
headquarters in Narborough yesterday.

Mrs Lewin, 28, said: "We were originally going to sell them, but then we saw
what happened in the United States. Our initial feeling was one of helplessness
but then we heard that there was a shortage of police dogs in the UK because of
the heightened security." Mr Lewin said: "He's getting on really well, I knew he
would because he isn't fazed by anything." Pc Spiers said: "Although he's only
17 weeks old, we've started his training and he's doing very well."

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester mercury

                              16 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 20, 2001

Imports surge ahead

BYLINE: Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 254 words


Britain is sucking in imports from a recession-hit eurozone economy, pushing the
trade gap with the countries to its widest for 17 months, government figures
showed yesterday.

The deficit on goods and services with the 12-member single currency area hit
pounds 600m in October, the office for national statistics said - the highest
level since May 2000, and 26% wider than the gap in September.

Analysts said yesterday that the trade gap with the rest of the world was likely
to widen in the coming months as confident consumers helped Britain avoid the
worst effects of the global slowdown. This has already dragged down growth in
Germany, Europe's largest economy.

Despite the wider trade gap with Europe, Britain's total deficit on goods and
services with the rest of the world narrowed for a second month in October to
pounds 1.4bn, the figures showed, as exports rose 5.5% on the month.

But provisional figures for trade with non-EU countries in November, also
released yesterday, showed the deficit widening to pounds 2bn, after shrinking
in September and October as the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington
brought international trade to a virtual standstill.

In another sign yesterday that global trade is staging a tentative
post-September 11 lows, America's trade gap with the rest of the world surged in
October to Dollars 29.4bn, after shrinking to Dollars 19bn in September -
although analysts said that this was partly because of payouts from foreign
insurance companies.


LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              17 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 19, 2001

Price rises;
 NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 90 words


BRITAIN: House prices look set to increase further next year despite signs that
the market has being slowing down since July, a group claimed today.

The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors said during the three months to the
end of November house price inflation across England and Wales slowed to its
weakest rate of growth since October last year.

But the group said the market had 'steadied' following a knock in September
following the terrorist attacks, and most surveyors remained 'upbeat' about its
prospects for 2002.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              18 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               December 19, 2001

House prices to rise;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 131 words


NATIONAL: House prices look set to increase fur ther next year despite signs
that the market has being slowing down since July, a group claimed today.

The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors said during the three months to the
end of November, house-price inflation across England and Wales slowed to its
weakest rate of growth since October last year.

But the group said the market had "steadied" following a knock in September in
the aftermath of the terrorist attacks, and most surveyors remained "upbeat"
about its prospects for 2002.

However the situation was divided across the country, with surveyors in the
south east and London expecting to see weaker increases or even slight price
falls, while in the nor th agents are reporting continued strong gains.

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              19 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          December 19, 2001, Wednesday

HOUSE PRICES 'TO RISE';
 PROPERTY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 184 words


HOUSE prices look set to increase further next year despite signs that the
market has was slowing down since July, a group claimed today.

The Royal Institute of Chartered Surveyors said during the three months to the
end of November house price inflation across England and Wales slowed to its
weakest rate of growth since October last year.

But the group said the market had "steadied" after a knock in September in the
aftermath of the terrorist attacks, and going forward most surveyors remained
upbeat about its prospects for 2002.

But the situation was divided across Britain, with surveyors in the south east
expecting to see weaker house price inflation or even slight price falls, while
in the north agents are reporting continued strong gains.

In the south east 37pc more surveyors reported falling house prices than those
who said there had been an increase, up from 28pc in October.

Across the whole of England and Wales there were steady price increases with 2pc
more surveyors reporting a rise than those who saw falls - slightly down on the
5pc reported last month.

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              20 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 18, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Politics: Reshape British forces to face terrorists, MPs
recommend: Commons told that regulars could not cope

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 404 words


The battle against terrorism requires a fundamental reappraisal of the structure
of Britain's armed forces, including their role in defending domestic targets,
the Commons defence committee says in a report out today.

The government must urgently face up to the need for more "specialist and highly
trained agile forces", such as marine commandos and paratroopers, it says.
Greater focus on terrorist threats could put special forces "at the very heart
of future operations".

In an unmistakable reference to the government's refusal to make official
statements about the SAS, it adds: "a sensible debate on our military response
to terrorism will have to deal more openly and frankly with the size, role and
utility of our special forces".

It also says that the regular forces may not be able to cope with a terrorist
attack. Existing arrangements were all very well to deal with such civil
emergencies as foot and mouth disease, the MPs say, but add: "We remain to be
convinced that they would prove adequate in the event of a large-scale terrorist
attack."

The reserves should be trained to deal with nuclear, biological and chemical
warfare, they add.

The call coincides with plans to send 1,000-1,500 troops to Kabul. An advance
party of about 250 Royal Marine commandos, many of whom have been based on the
assault ship Fearless in the Arabian Sea for the past two months, is likely to
be in Kabul by Saturday.

Major-General John McColl, who is in Kabul discussing the size of the force, is
expected to report by Wednesday, in time for Mr Blair to make an announcement on
parliament's last day before the Christmas recess.

Argentina, Australia, New Zealand, Canada, the Czech Republic, Jordan, Malaysia,
Turkey, France, Germany, Italy and Spain have offered troops, he said.

Mr Blair told MPs that Britain was best placed to lead the interim force, which
is expected to be in Kabul for three months before being replaced by one
predominantly from Muslim countries.

The Tory leader, Iain Dun can Smith, said British troops could become a target
for Taliban stragglers if they were deployed as peacekeepers. The Conservatives
had "deep misgivings about Britain leading the peacekeeping mission.

Mr Blair said that if the international community walked away from Afghanistan
it would be repeating the mistake of 10-12 years ago when it let the country
become a "failed state.


LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              21 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           December 17, 2001, Monday

Woolf attacks new terror law

BYLINE: By Joshua Rozenberg Legal Editor

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 424 words

LORD Woolf, the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, will today attack the
Government's new Anti-Terrorism Act and say it damages Britain's reputation
abroad.

He discloses that he has appointed an experienced team of judges to hear
challenges by alleged foreign terrorists who may be detained here without trial.
He makes it clear that judges will release them if their detention is not based
on proper evidence.

In an interview for BBC News 24's Hardtalk programme to be broadcast this
evening, Lord Woolf says Britain has a reputation among other countries for
upholding the rule of law. Asked if that could be lost as a result of the new
legislation, Lord Woolf says: "It does damage our reputation, and I am sure that
the Government is conscious of that and Parliament is conscious of that.

"One doesn't want to have a situation of this sort. The precedents are not
auspicious. In previous wars, things have happened which, with hindsight, are
now known to have been wrong. We have to be astute to avoid that happening, so
far as possible."

The Lord Chief Justice says aspects of the Anti-Terrorism Bill, as originally
drafted, caused him "concern". He is encouraged by the fact that the legislation
will be kept under review by Parliament and hopes it will be repealed as soon as
possible.

"If the Government thinks that the legislation is no longer needed, I hope it
will be astute [enough] to take action," he tells Tim Sebastian, the programme's
presenter.

Under the legislation, special courts will hear challenges by detainees. "I am
concerned that the appeal procedures that will be involved are not those that we
normally have," says the Lord Chief Justice.

"But we have done our best to ensure that those special courts will have the
characteristics of the ordinary courts and I am happy to say that they are going
to be presided over by the very same High Court judges who would have heard
applications for judicial review." That, he says, will "mitigate the effect of
an undesirable situation".

His decision means that challenges will be heard by judges who are experienced
at striking the balance between the interests of the state and the rights of
individuals.

Lord Woolf acknowledges that detainees may only appeal further on a point of
law, but he says that "a point of law is much wider to a lawyer" than it would
seem to anyone else.

Asked if the events of September 11 have changed everything, Lord Woolf replies:
"I think we have got to be very careful in situations of this sort not to
over-react."

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              22 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 15, 2001

Cunard contract goes to Italian yard: pounds 275m Southampton liner will boost
UK cruise industry

BYLINE: Richard Wray

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 290 words


Carnival Corporation, the US cruise ship operator, yesterday awarded a pounds
275m contract to build a new luxury liner for its Cunard Line to Italian
shipbuilder Fincantieri. The as yet unnamed 1,968-passenger ship will be based
out of Southampton and join Cunard's fleet, which includes the QE2, early in
2005.

Cunard prompted outrage in what remains of the British shipbuilding industry in
the summer by announcing plans to pass off the Queen Mary II, which will enter
service a year before the new ship, as "the best of British" despite the fact
that it was built in France.

Cunard's president and chief operating officer Pamela Conover said yesterday
that the new ship is also intended to strengthen the company's position in the
growing British cruise market.

"We are thoroughly committed to expanding our presence in the UK," she said.
"This project confirms Cunard's determination to maintain our position as the
choice British brand."

Britain is the world's second largest cruise market after Germany with more than
1m passengers expected to sail next year. Together with the Queen Mary II, the
new ships will increase Cunard's capacity by more than 40%.

The order is the first contract that Cunard has placed with Fincantieri. It is
also a vote of confidence in an in dustry that been badly hit by the effects of
the terrorist attacks on September 11. Two cruise lines - American Classic
Voyages Miami and Renaissance Cruises of Fort Lauderdale - have already filed
for bankruptcy.

Cunard seems to have no fears that there is over-capacity in the cruise market.
Just over a year ago it awarded a pounds 550m contract to build the Queen Mary
II to French shipyard Alstom Chantiers de lAtlantique.


LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 14, 2001

Leading article: Bright green Britain: Renewable energy gets a welcome boost

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 407 words


Here's a strikingly good piece of Christmas cheer come early: a vision of
Britain as one of the greenest energy producers in the world, phasing out its
nuclear, coal and oil-fired stations and developing its enormous wind, wave and
solar resources. No, this isn't a Greenpeace Christmas circular, it's the leaked
draft of a government energy review. Finally, in one of the most frustrating and
short-sighted areas of public policy, the Performance and Innovation Unit has
dared say what environmentalists have been pointing out for several decades.

A combination of cost, the Kyoto agreement on cuts in carbon emissions and
September 11 are all combining to make the case for renewable energy. Invest
enough in renewables and the unit costs come right down as well as help us meet
our Kyoto target of a 20% cut in emissions. Plus, the events of September 11
have shifted the terms of the entire energy debate. First, strategists are
concerned at our vulnerability to terrorist attack; nuclear power stations are
an obvious concern, but so also is the centralisation of our power generation
system: a city could be crippled by attacking a couple of power stations.
Suddenly, the old environmentalist arguments about decentralisation are being
taken seriously. Second, September 11 highlighted the vulnerability of the UK's
energy dependence from potentially hostile countries such as Algeria and Iran.

In line with this thinking, the government is now making the right noises: for
example, suggesting that the UK's renewables target be doubled to 20% by 2020,
and by backing the proposed major wind farms: in Wales and on Lewis. But
environmentalists aren't popping champagne corks; too little, too late, they
argue. Their grumpiness stems from scepticism that the review will survive the
expected onslaught from the pro-nuclear Department of Trade and Industry before
it is released next month. Also there's a suspicion that the government gives
with one hand and takes away with the other; electricity regulators, for
example, dealt a savage blow to the burgeoning renewables sector earlier this
year, resulting in a cut in their contribution to the national grid by 41%. Not
much joined-up government there. But the broader picture is more hopeful than
ever; this review could prove the turning point in government policy which
finally allows Britain to take advantage of its huge potential for wind and wave
power.


LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   Broadcast

                           December 13, 2001 Thursday

RTE looks to UK output to ease cash shortfall

SECTION: ARTICLE; Terrestrial; News

LENGTH: 267  words



HIGHLIGHT: British broadcasters to benefit as advertising downturn bites and
licence-fee increase is refused


Sales of British programmes to the Republic of Ireland are set to receive a
boost after Irish state broadcaster RTE announced it was radically scaling back
the amount of home-grown programming it produces because of a crippling
financial crisis,      writes Leigh HolmwoodExecutives at the broadcaster -
which runs television channels RTE 1 and Network 2 - told Broadcast that
acquired programmes would have to increase after 200 hours of local programming
a year were cut from the schedules (around four hours a week).The move comes
after a double financial blow for the broadcaster, which relies on a mixture of
advertising and a licence fee for its revenue.

A drop in advertising following the 11 September terrorist attacks has been
compounded by a disappointing licence fee settlement, in which the Irish
government turned down its request for an increase of IR£50 from each licence
fee payer.'We are trying to minimise the impact,' said RTE director of
communications Bride Rosney. 'We have to start being more and more creative and
start to think laterally. Acquisitions are always going to be more economically
viable.'Several popular local shows have already been axed, including political
satire Bull Island and comedian Jason Byrne's show. Late-night talk show Olivia
O'Leary is also to be cut.Broadcasters in Britain will be the main beneficiaries
of the move for more foreign programming. RTE already screens a host of British
made programmes such as soaps EastEnders, Crossroads and Doctors; dramas The
Bill, Silent Witness and Monarch of the Glen; and sport shows such as The
Premiership.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: Broadcast


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               December 13, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Extradition: Europe urged to end hostility to US death
penalty: Bush's envoy says EU ban is obsolete

BYLINE: Richard Norton-Taylor, Nicholas Watt and Jon Henley in Paris

SECTION: Guardian Foreign Pages, Pg. 15

LENGTH: 486 words


Britain and other European countries were urged yesterday to drop their
opposition to extraditing terrorist suspects to America if they would face the
death penalty there.

Speaking in London at the start of a tour of European capitals, the US attorney
general, John Ashcroft, argued that the September 11 terrorist attacks on US
cities called for a new approach.

"I urge, for the safety and security of freedom-loving people everywhere, that
assessments be made in the light of the nature of terrorism, the kind of
international terrorism which has taken so many lives and impaired the capacity
of people to operate in freedom," he said.

Washington is alarmed by the determination of some European countries, including
Britain, France and Spain, to block the extradition of terrorist suspects to
America if they would face the death penalty upon conviction there.

The Home Office confirmed yesterday that nobody would be extradited from Britain
to the US without an assurance that they would not be executed. The 1998 Human
Rights Act prevents Britain from handing over anybody to a country with the
death penalty.

This is believed to apply to Lotfi Raissi, an Algerian pilot whom the US wants
Britain to extradite. He is alleged to have made false statements in connection
with a pilot's licence.

Despite being at odds about extradition policy, Mr Ashcroft went out of his way
to praise David Blunkett. After talks in London, the attorney general described
the home secretary as "an inspiration" to him in the fight against terrorism.

"I am delighted to have spent time with David Blunkett. His commitments to the
safety and security of individuals in the fight against terrorism are a matter
of inspiration to me. I thank him for his most hospitable welcome and his
understanding of the nature of terrorism."

Both ministers are under fire. The home secretary is in conflict with the House
of Lords about his anti-terrorism bill which would allow detention without trial
for suspected foreign terrorists. Across the Atlantic, human rights groups are
furious with Mr Ashcroft for wanting to try terror suspects in secret military
tribunals.

Mr Ashcroft is going to get a rougher ride in other European capitals. Paris is
heading for a showdown with Washington on the fate of Zacarias Moussaoui, the
Frenchman of Moroccan descent who is the first suspect to be charged in the US
with conspiring in the September 11 attacks.

Marylise Lebranchu, the justice minister, said that Mr Moussaoui would get
consular protection, adding: "Obviously, no person receiving French consular
protection can be executed. We do not accept the death penalty."

Downing Street has said that Osama bin Laden will be handed over to the US if he
is captured by British forces outside Britain.

Special report on Britain's political response to September 11 guardian.co.uk/
politics/attacks


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                               December 13, 2001

'Tourism trade will improve'.

BYLINE: Clive White

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 357 words


Tourist spots in the Bradford district are set to cash in as British
holidaymakers look for destinations closer to home next year.

Government figures have revealed that there has been a 30 per cent drop in the
number of visitors to the UK because of a double whammy of the foot and mouth
outbreak and the terrorist attacks of September 11.

But the Good Britain Guide 2002 reckons that many people will also be put off
travelling abroad which will result in "a vintage year" for the district's
tourist havens such as Haworth and Saltaire.

Its editor Alisdair Aird said: "There are certainly a lot of opportunities for
Bradford's attractions in the current demand for holidays in Britain.

"Most of the people who visit them tend to be from this country. There is no
doubt that September 11 has had a pretty dire effect on tourism generally.

"But when we were carrying out our research for the Good Britain Guide 2002 we
did not find that any of the places featured in the book were negatively
affected by the current global situation or people concerned about the Bradford
riots.

"Our researchers found Bradford to be a particularly worthwhile place to visit."

Gina Glot, senior marketing officer for Bradford Council, confirmed that the
domestic tourism trade has increased.

"Bradford is in a good position to attract the domestic holidaymaker because we
have got a lot to offer," she said.

"There is no doubt that there is a growing domestic tourism trade, and short
breaks have become very popular."

Ms Glot said she hopes a rise in tourism over the next summer season will make
up for the problems caused by foot and mouth this year.

Sue Swales, manager of Skipton Tourist Information Centre, said: "We hope to
have a good year in 2002 and that we will eventually become a clear area and
things will get back to normal."

Anne Heald, of Saltaire tourist information, said she has noticed a drop in
foreign tourists since the September 11 attacks.

"Hopefully British people who have been put off going abroad to Spain or Greece
because of the global situation might decide to come here instead," she said.

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              27 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               December 12, 2001

British student on terror charges

BYLINE: Stephen Wright

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 264 words


AN ISLAMIC extremist who lived in Britain for nine years yesterday became the
first key figure to be charged in connection with the September 11 attacks on
the U.S.

French-Moroccan Zacarias Moussaoui who has been dubbed 'the 20th hijacker' was
indicted in the U.S. on six counts of conspiracy, exactly three months after the
atrocities.

The FBI believes he was the 20th member of the suicide cells that seized four
planes the other 19 died in the attacks but Moussaoui had already been arrested
while he trained to be a pilot.

The 33-year-old is accused of conspiracy to commit acts of terrorism, commit
aircraft piracy, destroy aircraft, use weapons of mass destruction, murder U.S.

employees and destroy property. Four of the charges carry the death penalty.

Moussaoui arrived in Britain as a student in 1991 and lived in Brixton, South
London, until a year ago.

He spent some time studying at the South Bank University for a business degree.

Moussaoui was a follower of Abu Qatada, the West London cleric who has been
called Bin Laden's representative in the UK but has never been charged with any
crime.

Moussaoui's mother, who lives in Narbonne, Southwest France, said he became an
extremist after going to Britain. 'He met practising fundamentalists in London,'
she said. 'He grew a beard but I had no idea he was mixed up with terrorists.'
Her son aroused suspicion at flying school by asking to learn only level flight,
not takeoffs or landings.

U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft called him 'an active participant' in the
attacks.


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              28 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               December 11, 2001

Clinton honours his date at Tatton

BYLINE: PAUL BROSTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 361 words


A MASSIVE security operation was underway today as former American President
Bill Clinton jetted to Manchester for a glittering fund-raising dinner.

A ring of steel, including armed police, was in place for the ex-US leader as he
headed to Tatton Park in Cheshire for a VIP night in aid of a key Jewish
charity.  Mr Clinton, who is receiving around GBP 100,000 to speak at three
dinners in Britain, is helping raise more than GBP 1m to build a vital reservoir
in Israel's Negev desert.

He decided to fly to Britain to honour his agreement with the Jewish National
Fund despite the September 11 terrorist attacks and the deepening Arab-Israeli
crisis.  Today the FBI joined forces with police and Special Branch officers to
protect Mr Clinton, who is being accompanied by bodyguards.

He was due to fly by private jet to Manchester Airport from Glasgow today, where
he attended his first fund-raiser last night.  More than 1,000 guests, including
ex-footballer Kenny Dalglish and TV presenter Angus Deayton, have paid between
GBP 250 and GBP 1500 for tickets for tonight's marquee event at Tatton, near
Knutsford.  Other stars expected to attend include actor Richard Wilson, who
played Victor Meldrew in BBC comedy One Foot in The Grave.

Mr Clinton, who tried to broker a lasting peace between Israelis and
Palestinians during his time as president, is expected to deliver a 45-minute
speech calling for an end to the bloodshed in the Middle East.  We did not
succeed in achieving that goal (lasting peace) and the past year has been a
heartbreaking one,'' he said today.  I have faith that the Israelis will be able
to stay the course and create the peaceful future they deserve.''

Organisers, who themselves have undergone rigorous security checks ahead of the
long-planned dinner, confirmed armed officers would be present.  Event
spokeswoman Clare Moody said: The event has proved very popular with ladies who
can't wait to meet him. It promises to be a fantastic night.'' Tatton Park
general manager, Brendan Flanagan said: It's a great honour for us to have
someone like Bill Clinton here.''


LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FUND-RAISER . . . Bill Clinton

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              29 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               December 10, 2001

Britain set to lead UN forces in Afghanistan;
 GROUND TROOPS: thousands to be deployed in a multi-national force

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 509 words


BRITAIN today stands ready to lead a United Nations peacekeeping force which
could be on the ground in Afghanistan within weeks, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon
has signalled.

As speculation continued as to the size of any British contribution, Mr Hoon
made clear Britain was ready to take the lead if asked.

A small UN team is already in the Afghan capital Kabul assessing the logistical
and security situation in advance of the expected deployment of a
thousands-strong multi-national force.

The Defence Secretary said: "I see every advantage in one country providing the
main elements of the headquarters of this operation, something that the UK has
done very well in the past.

"Certainly, if the United Nations makes a request, we will look at that very,
very seriously."

Mr Hoon played down reports that as many as 10,000 British troops might be
involved in a total force of up to 50,000, saying: "I don't believe that
necessarily any one country will have such a large number."

Later reports quoted defence sources saying the British contingent could number
2,000-3,000 troops.

The Ministry of Defence has refused to comment on numbers.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell, who on Saturday named Britain as a likely
candidate to lead the force, arrives in London tomorrow for talks with Tony
Blair on the future of Afghanistan.

The two men will take part in a ceremony at Downing Street to mark three months
since the September 11 terror atrocities.

The UN announced a second team of 17 experts was being sent to Afghanistan to
help the new interim administration, which is due to take office on December 22,
set up a government.

The team will help write a constitution, prepare for elections and set up
institutions ranging from a judiciary and police force to a banking system.

Meanwhile, efforts were intensifying to "smoke out" terror suspect Osama bin
Laden from the cave complex in eastern Afghanistan where he is believed to be
hiding.

Speculation that the Saudi millionaire may have fled over the border to
northwestern Pakistan, where he has significant support among local tribes, was
fuelled when reporters made radio contact with a member of his al Qaida terror
network.

However, a number of other reports from the area have placed bin Laden in the
area, with one Northern Alliance spokesman yesterday claiming the terror chief
was personally leading his 1,000 al Qaida fighters in battle.

Reports from Afghanistan said American bombers were today continuing to pound
the hills and caves of Tora Bora to soften defences for a ground assault by
Afghan tribesmen.

Cheney said a videotape of bin Laden obtained by US officials in Afghanistan
makes clear the al Qaida leader was behind the September 11 attacks.

The tape - which has not been released - was reported to show bin Laden praising
Allah for the attacks and describing them as more successful than he had
anticipated.

He reportedly says he did not expect the World Trade Centre towers to collapse
in the way they did

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              30 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 10, 2001, Monday

UK FORCE READY TO LEAD WAY;
 MISSION OF PEACE 'IN WEEKS' MYSTERY: bin Laden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 427 words


BRITAIN today stands ready to lead a United Nations peacekeeping force which
could be on the ground in Afghanistan within weeks, Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon
has signalled.

As speculation continued as to the size of any British contribution, Mr Hoon
made clear Britain was ready to take the lead if asked.

A small UN team is already in the Afghan capital Kabul assessing the logistical
and security situation in advance of the expected deployment of a thousands
-strong multi-national force.

The Defence Secretary told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost: "I see every advantage
in one country providing the main elements of the headquarters of this
operation, something that the UK has done very well in the past.

"Certainly, if the United Nations makes a request, we will look at that very,
very seriously."

Mr Hoon played down reports that as many as 10,000 British troops might be
involved in a total force of up to 50,000, saying: "I don't believe that
necessarily any one country will have such a large number."

Later reports quoted defence sources saying the British contingent could number
2,000- 3,000 troops. The Ministry of Defence has refused to comment on numbers.

US Secretary of State Colin Powell, who on Saturday named Britain as a likely
candidate to lead the force, arrives in London tomorrow for talks with Tony
Blair on the future of Afghanistan.

The two men will take part in a ceremony at Downing Street to mark three months
since the September 11 terror atrocities. Meanwhile, efforts were intensifying
to "smoke out" terror suspect Osama bin Laden from the cave complex in eastern
Afghanistan where he is believed to be hiding.

Speculation that the Saudi millionaire may have fled over the border to north
-western Pakistan, where he has significant support among local tribes, was
fuelled when reporters made radio contact with a member of al Qaida inside the
Tora Bora caves.

Abu Abdullah said that bin Laden had gone and that just 84 al Qaida fighters
remained.

Other reports have placed bin Laden in the area, with one Northern Alliance
spokesman yesterday claiming the terror chief was personally leading his 1,000
al Qaida fighters in battle. Vice-President Dick Cheney said a videotape of bin
Laden obtained in Afghanistan makes clear he was behind the September 11
attacks.

The tape was reported to show bin Laden praising Allah for the attacks and
describing them as more successful than he had anticipated. He reportedly said
he did not expect the towers to collapse in the way they did.

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              31 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               December 10, 2001

Video reveals bin Laden guilt, says Cheney

BYLINE: Tom Gordon

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 548 words


A VIDEOTAPE of Osama bin Laden celebrating the unexpected success of the
September 11 terror attacks and revealing his guilt has been found in Af
-ghanistan, the US vice president said last night.

As American intelligence said it knew roughly where bin Laden was hiding,
Richard Cheney said the 40-minute tape, recovered from a private house in
Jalalabad, showed the al Qaeda leader talking in Arabic about the moment he
heard a plane had crashed into the World Trade Centre.

Bin Laden displayed "significant knowledge of what happened and there's no doubt
about his responsibility for the attack", Mr Cheney said. Paul Wolfowitz, deputy
defence secretary, de-scribed the tape as "disgusting".

President George W Bush is now considering whether to put it into the public
domain. "We have not been eager to give the guy any extra television time," Mr
Cheney said.

US officials said they knew approximately where bin Laden was hiding. General
Richard Meyers, the joint chiefs of staff chairman, said intelligence reports
indicated he was in the area around Tora Bora, al Qaeda's mountain cave complex
in east Afghanistan.

"Our latest information is that he is there in the hills with some other al
Qaeda fighters and they are fighting fiercely with opposition forces, trying to
survive."

Mullah Mohammed Omar, the Taliban leader, was believed to be close to Kandahar.

Geoff Hoon, the UK defence secretary, said Britain was ready to lead a UN
peacekeeping force in Afghanistan within weeks.

Although Downing Street said it was too early to speculate if Britain would take
part, Mr Hoon told BBC's Breakfast with Frost: "I see every advantage in one
country providing the main elements of the headquarters of this operation,
something that the UK has done very well in the past. Certainly, if the United
Nations makes a request, we will look at that very, very seriously."

But he played down reports that as many as 10,000 British troops might be
involved in a total force of up to 50,000.

Mr Hoon also said he thought the US would be the correct venue for a trial if
bin Laden were captured by British troops, but only if he did not face the death
penalty.

As US warplanes continued their bombardment of Tora Bora, hundreds of Afghan
tribesmen prepared to launch a major ground assault on the hideout complex,
while Pakistani forces moved to seal off escape routes on their side of the
border. Mohammed Zaman, the local anti-Taliban commander, said bombs alone could
not dislodge the al Qaeda fighters, who had spent years fortifying the caves.

In Kandahar, rival anti-Taliban commanders agreed to settle the differences
which had seen faction fighting immediately after Friday's surrender. Gul Agha,
the city's governor before the Taliban took over Kandahar in 1994, is to return
to his former post.

Mullah Naqib Ullah, whom he criticised for being pro-Taliban, will be his
assistant.

Two Pashtun commanders were among 18 people killed when a Northern Alliance
helicopter crashed in the northern province of Takhar.

Elsewhere, a train loaded with 1000 tons of grain and flour entered Afghanistan
from Uzbekistan when the Friendship Bridge, the only crossing over the
countries' river border, reopened for the first time since May 1997.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: INNOCENT VICTIM: An Afghan boy who lost a leg in a US bombing raid in
Kandahar lies in a hospital in Quetta, Pakistan .  Picture: John MacDougall

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Belfast Telegraph

                                December 8, 2001

Tourism falls after US terror attacks

LENGTH: 174 words


THE number of tourists visiting Britain has plunged following the September 11
terror attacks, a Government report showed today.

Holidaymakers to the UK fell by 31% in October compared to the same time last
year, seasonally-adjusted figures from the Office for National Statistics
revealed.

Tourist numbers fell by 234,000, from 720,000 to 486,000 between October 2000
and October 2001, the non-seasonally adjusted figures revealed.

Meanwhile, trips overseas by UK residents rose by 1% during the August to
October period.

Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell said: "We know that recent world events have
deterred many from taking holidays abroad and some British tourism businesses
have been hit."

But she insisted there was still hope for the UK tourism industry.

"In some parts of Britain, businesses are recording good trade and there are
very encouraging signs for next year.

She added: "Since September 11 we have worked very closely with the industry to
address the immediate problems and long-term issues."


LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Belfast Telegraph Newspapers Ltd.

                              33 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                December 8, 2001

CUT PRICE AIRLINES ARE SWAMPED BY DEMAND

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA FLETCHER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 575 words


BUDGET airlines yesterday flew out of the turmoil facing the travel industry
when they announced bumper passenger numbers for November.

After slashing prices following the September 11 terrorist attacks, both Go
airline and easyJet have been swamped by demand.

Go, which until the summer was owned by British Airways, announced a 63 per cent
increase in passengers in November - more than 350,000 - compared to the same
month last year.

But hot on their heels was easyJet, with a 38 per cent increase in passengers
over the same months - to almost 700,000.

The no-frills carrier, chaired by Greek tycoon Stelios Haji-Ioannou, had seen a
26 per cent fall in passengers on the day after the terrorist attacks.

A company spokesman said:

"No one wanted to get on a plane on September 12.

"But we have shown that people are prepared to travel if the price is right. If
British Airways can't get their prices right, that's their fault."

EasyJet immediately offered cut-price deals after the terrorist attacks, such as
GBP 25 return London Luton to Barcelona, GBP 40 return to Athens and GBP 20
return to Scotland, taxes included.

It admitted the promotions meant average fares were GBP 3 to GBP 4 below normal
levels, but said with more passengers it was still on course to meet its
targets.

Planes were on average 85.2 per cent full last month compared to 80 per cent the
year before. Just over 90 per cent of seats were sold over the Internet, up from
79.4 per cent previously.

Like the rest of the budget sector, easyJet has proved much more resilient to
the downturn in tourism than the major airlines.

BA blamed "challenging" conditions for a 17.8 per cent slump in passengers last
month.

Meanwhile, Ryanair, easyJet and Go have all slashed prices and kept the public
travelling.

Although yesterday's figures for passenger numbers were not quite as strong as
they had been in October, both Go and easyJet said this was caused by a normal
dip in the number of people flying during the winter months.

EasyJet, Go and Ryanair are all hoping to expand both the number of routes they
fly and the number of planes they own to pick up on the slack left by the
beleaguered scheduled airlines.

Other new figures show foreign tourists are staying away from Britain following
the September 11 terrorist attacks.

In October the number of Americans coming to the UK fell by 40 per cent, and
overall there were almost 30 per cent fewer people visiting the country, tourist
chiefs say.

Richard Tobias, chairman of the British Incoming Tour Operators Association,
said: "We expected it to be bad for October. There is a long way to go and we
need a lot more money from the Government to advertise ourselves abroad."

Tourist leaders have pleaded with the Government for more money to invest in
advertising Britain abroad, but so far help for the GBP 64billion a year
industry has been muted.

The Government has said it must survive on the GBP 14million offered after the
foot-and-mouth crisis and that no more funds are available due to the impact of
September 11.

The industry is launching a GBP 5million advertising campaign - but the money
must stretch to promote the UK in seven countries worldwide.

Overall, the figures from the Office of National Statistics showed the number of
people arriving in Britain on holiday in October fell to 554,000 - a drop of a
third on the month before.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              34 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                December 8, 2001

Tourism slump may take years to reverse

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 388 words


The terror attacks in the US have contributed to the British tourist industry's
worst year in a decade, according to figures from the office for national
statistics yesterday.

Numbers fell 31% to 554,000 in the month of October, compared with last year.
Visits by foreigners fell by 7%.

There were 103,000 North Americans coming to Britain in October, down from
169,000 last year. A clear drop of 7% came during September, immediately
following the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Tourism officials said the report was no worse than expected, but the fall in
North American visitors was the greatest since the Gulf war a decade ago - and
could take years to reverse.

The report confirms the the devastating effects of foot and mouth, the economic
downturn, and the terrorism attacks in the US, coinciding with a strong pound.

Last year tourism was worth an estimated pounds 64bn to Britain and employed 7%
of the workforce.

"The figures for North America are not a surprise," said a spokeswoman for the
British tourism authority. "But it's probably the worst year for tourism for a
decade. You have to go back to the Gulf war to see numbers drop off like that.

"The American market did recover from that, and did so impressively, becoming
our most important market in terms of visitor spending. We are not in any doubt
that it will recover again, but last time it took three or four years to do so."

The authority hopes to speed the process with a marketing campaign next year in
the US, Canada, and five European countries.

Its spokeswoman added: "Whilst people in the States will be nervous about
travelling, there's an enormous goodwill factor for the UK."

Miles Quest, director of communications at the British hospitality association,
agreed that the dramatic fall was no worse than expected, saying: "Unfortunately
September, October and November are usually strong months for London, with
business visits as well as tourism."

He added: "London has certainly been very badly hit, but the provinces are not
nearly so badly affected. It's not unalloyed gloom. Some hotels have had a very
good autumn because more English people are holidaying in Britain."

There was a 1% rise in the number of Britons making overseas trips between
August and October.


LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            South Wales Evening Post

                                December 8, 2001

U.S. firefighter thanks crews

SECTION: PUBLIC SERVICES: fire, Pg.8

LENGTH: 296 words


A NEW York firefighter has written to South West Wales describing how in his 21
years in the job he never thought he would see his colleagues internationally so
united.

Chief William Wiley, from Hainesport Fire Company in New Jersey, has written a
letter to Mid and West Wales Fire Brigade and others across Britain.

His firefighters were called to assist the New York crews following the
terrorist attack on the World Trade Center building.

Since the attack firefighters in this area have been raising money to help the
families of the victims of the attack.

And their efforts were praised by Chief Wiley.

Immediately after this attack we asked ourselves, What now, who do we turn to?
As the United States of America who will come to our aid?','' he said.

I am writing to you because I found out who would come to our needs, you, the
great people of the United Kingdom.

The people of the United Kingdom rushed to our cause.

You offered emergency service personnel, medical aid and military support.

The horrible feeling of not being able to help our brother firefighters who were
trapped was frustrating to us and was obviously felt by the firefighters of your
great country.

I must confess that after 21 years in the fire service I never thought that the
brotherhood of international firefighters would be pulled together so tightly.

I am very proud to belong to a brotherhood that has no boundaries. I want
everyone to know how thankful we are.''

Soon after the September 11 attacks, a memorial service was held in London
attended by representatives from every fire brigade in Britain.

Some 20 firefighters from Mid and West Wales went to the service.

The contents of the letter will be reported to a meeting of the Mid and West
Wales Fire Authority.

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: EXHAUSTED Bill Fennelly, a volunteer firefighter, pauses for a moment
at the World Trade Center collapse in New York.

                    Copyright 2001 South Wales Evening Post

                              36 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                December 7, 2001

Suspect wanted to bomb Westminster

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 233 words


A suspected al Qaeda agent who may have plotted a suicide attack on the UK
parliament took flying lessons in Britain, it was revealed last night.

Bombay police said that an e-mail sent by Mohammed Afroz, a 28-year-old Muslim,
to an address in Australia mentioned plans to attack the House of Commons after
hijacking a plane.

They say that he also claimed that Osama bin Laden's network had planned
terrorist attacks in Australia and India similar to the September 11 assaults on
the United States.

A Bombay court today ordered Afroz be held in custody. A judge will decide later
on a trial.

Channel 4 News reported that Afroz joined the Cabair college of air training at
Cranfield airfield in Bedfordshire at the end of August, apparently paying a
sizeable deposit for a year-long residential course, which would have cost
around (pounds) 50,000. On September 17, he failed to turn up for classes and
was reported missing.

l The fight against terrorism widened last night as Colin Powell, US secretary
of state, stepped up pressure on breakaway republican and loyalist terror groups
by naming them on a list of groups whose supporters are banned from the US.

The groups named were the Continuity IRA, the Orange Volunteers and the Red Hand
Defenders.

The move means their supporters will not be allowed into the US and if they are
found there, they will be deported.

LOAD-DATE: December 07, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                December 7, 2001

Pilot's 'plan to attack the Commons'

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.26

LENGTH: 315 words


A PLOT to attack the House of Commons with a hijacked plane has been uncovered
in India by police who have arrested a man suspected of having links to Osama
bin Laden's al-Qaida network.

Bombay police said Mohammed Afroz, a 28-year-old Muslim, also claimed bin
Laden's network had planned terrorist attacks in Australia and India similar to
the September 11 assaults on the United States.

A Bombay court yesterday ordered Afroz to be held in custody after more
preliminary charges were filed against him, included waging war against the
nation and creating uncertainty and apprehension in Indian territory.

In Canberra, Australian Foreign Minister Alexander Downer said: "I gather he
confessed to planning suicide attacks in Australia or in Britain or one or two
other countries, so it does underline the point that we need to take our
security very seriously."

Mr Downer said there was no reason to think his claims were a hoax.

Police in Bombay said an e-mail sent by Afroz to an address in Australia
mentioned plans to attack the House of Commons in London after hijacking a
plane.

Police found a global telephone card and an international credit card on the
suspect.

Indian Home Minister Lal Krishna Advani said Afroz had confessed to police "that
the al-Qaida network had planned to attack Britain, Australia and our Parliament
house. It was a massive conspiracy."

The Hindustan Times said Afroz said during questioning that the al-Qaida network
had sent him to flight training schools in Australia, Britain and India.

In Canberra, Attorney General Daryl Williams confirmed he had received flight
training in Australia. "The claim is that there was a group training to conduct
terrorist attack in Australia," Mr Williams said.

Afroz's father, Abdul Razak, who runs a tailor's shop in Bombay, said his son
had learned to fly in Bombay and he later left for London.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              38 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 6, 2001

'Suicide pilot was planning attack on UK';
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 136 words


NATIONAL: A man arrested in India has confessed to planning suicide attacks in
Britain, Australia's foreign minister said today.

Alexander Downer said Australian authorities were aware a man arrested in Bombay
last month had confessed to planning attacks in Australia and Britain. The
suspect's nationality was not known.

"He has done pilot training apparently in Australia and in Britain so presumably
the type ofsuicide attack he was contemplating was using aircraft, " Downer
said.

"The Indian authorities are taking it seriously." The man was arrested on
suspicion ofbeing linked with Osama bin Laden's al Qaida network.

A spokeswoman for Australian attorney-general Daryl Williams refused to reveal
details of the man's identity or where he completed his training or his
citizenship.

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              39 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 6, 2001, Thursday

MAN 'CONFESSES' TO UK TERROR ATTACK PLAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 176 words


A MAN arrested in India has confessed to planning suicide attacks in Britain,
Australia's foreign minister said today.

Alexander Downer said Australian authorities were aware that a man arrested in
Bombay last month had confessed to planning attacks in Australia and Britain.
The suspect's nationality was not known.

"He has done pilot training apparently in Australia and in Britain so presumably
the type of suicide attack he was contemplating was using aircraft," Downer
said.

"But whether of course he would have ever gone ahead with it, one doesn't know,
but the Indian authorities are taking it seriously."

The man was arrested on suspicion of being linked with Osama bin Laden's al
Qaida network, the target of the US-led coalition on the ground in Afghanistan.

A spokeswoman for attorney-general Daryl Williams said Australian law
enforcement and security agencies were trying to work out the truth of the man's
claims about the planned terrorist attacks.

Downer said there was no reason to think his claims were a hoax.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          December 06, 2001, Thursday

Terrorists planned airliner attack on Parliament, claims suspect

BYLINE: By Rahul Bedi in New Delhi

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 289 words

A MAN arrested in India and linked to the al-Qa'eda network has confessed to
planning suicide attacks in Britain, Australia and India around September 11,
the Indian home minister said yesterday.

"We arrested him a month ago in Bombay and he has made some shocking
confessions," L K Advani said in New Delhi.

Al-Qa'eda, he said, had plans to hit the Houses of Parliament and Tower Bridge,
the Rialto Towers in Melbourne, Australia, and Parliament House in Delhi with
hijacked aircraft filled with fuel, as well as the targets in America.

Mr Advani said Mohammad Afroze, a Bombay resident, learnt to fly in Australia
and England and underwent flight simulator training in Texas.

Arrested on Oct 9, Afroze has been charged with criminal conspiracy to wage war
against India, security officials told The Daily Telegraph. They said Afroze,
along with seven other al-Qa'eda "cell members" from Bangladesh, Afghanistan and
Pakistan who had undergone pilot training in Australia, had booked themselves on
two London-Manchester flights on September 11. They planned to hijack the
aircraft and crash them into Parliament and Tower Bridge, Afroze told security
officials under sustained interrogation.

But as they waited at an airport cafe to board their flights, news of the
September 11 attacks on New York and Washington panicked Afroze and his
companions.

They all fled from the airport, and went their separate ways.

Ten days later Afroze arrived in Bombay where he changed hotels frequently. He
was finally arrested on Oct 9.

Senior police officials said that British, American and Australian security
agencies had not reacted to Afroze's arrest despite being informed about it
nearly six weeks ago.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              41 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               December 06, 2001

Britain and US gear up war machine;

BYLINE: by ROGER BAGLEY

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 375 words


BRITAIN and the US moved nearer to launching massive new terror attacks against
other countries yesterday in addition to their bloody adventure in Afghanistan.

A major escalation of AngloUS military adventurism worldwide was signalled by
President Bush and British government ministers.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon declared that Britain must be prepared to take the
"war against terrorism" to countries which "support, nurture, protect and
direct" terrorist organisations.

He also announced an expansion of Britain's "rapid reaction" forces, ready for
short notice military strikes anywhere in the world.

National Stop the War Coalition chairman Andrew Murray accused Mr Hoon of
"setting out a charter for endless war."

Mr Murray warned grimly: "The price will be paid in blood."

He called on the anti-war movement to redouble its efforts in the face of "this
provocative escalation."

Fire Brigades Union general secretary Andy Gilchrist expressed horror at the
escalation and said that his heart went out to firefighters in the countries
that would be attacked.

"Firefighters will have the terrible task of dealing with the fires and the
devastation that will be caused by indiscriminate bombing, " he said.

Mr Gilchrist accused US and British leaders of lying to their people.

"This is not about catching bin Laden, " he added.

"This is about complete domination of the world. If you fall out of favour, you
get carpet-bombed."

A CND spokesman said: "These are worrying developments. More servicemen trained
for rapid-reaction forces is likely to result in more military intervention
overseas based on the current model in Afghanistan."

Mr Hoon announced the escalation in a major speech at King's College in London.

He said that Britain may have to use military force to "coerce" regimes which
harbour and support international terrorist groups.

US President George Bush braced his people for US military action outside
Afghanistan yesterday.

"I just want the American people to know that we're keeping all options on the
table, " he declared.

Mr Bush issued his strongest warning yet to Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, calling
him "evil" and warning him to let in UN weapons inspectors.

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2002

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              42 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     December 5, 2001, Wednesday Edition 1

Blair 'never in doubt' on action

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: UK AND WORLD NEWS, Pg. 18

LENGTH: 264 words







Prime Minister Tony Blair said yesterday he was never in any doubt what his
Government and the US had to do in response to the September 11 attacks and
still thought terrorists would launch a similar attack in Britain given the
chance.

In an interview with Time Europe magazine and its website, the Prime Minister
also did not rule out British involvement in any US-led military action against
Iraq. Asked whether the US would be alone if it attacked Saddam Hussein's
government, the premier said: "We haven't finished in Afghanistan yet." He
added: "These are questions the administration should answer for itself. But the
international coalition is a coalition against terrorism. People want to proceed
according to evidence and according to a strategy that delivers what we've set
out to deliver, which is to end international terrorism in all its forms. We've
got other issues we have to tackle, but we'll do that in a deliberate,
considered way."

Mr Blair said his first thoughts after the hijacked airliner attacks on
September 11 were shock, anger and outrage. "I never had any doubt for an
instant what the right thing was to do, what we had to do and get others to do,"
he added.

"When 4,000 people are murdered in New York in the middle of the day, I honestly
don't understand the argument of people who say we shouldn't have done anything
about it." Asked about the threat from terrorists in Britain, Mr Blair said:
"I've got no doubt at all they would try to do something in Britain if they
could."

LOAD-DATE: December 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              43 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           December 4, 2001, Tuesday

MIDLAND TOURISM RUNS OUT OF STEAM;
 ONLY RAILWAY MAKES SHORTLIST IN GOOD BRITAIN GUIDE AWARDS

BYLINE: Steve Swingler n REJECTED: The National Sealife Centre and Millennium
Point; n ON; THE RIGHT TRACK: The Severn Valley Railway made the awards
shortlist

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 326 words


MIDLAND tourist attractions failed to impress the judges behind this year's
prestigious Good Britain Guide awards.

The only destination to make the shortlist was the Severn Valley Railway between
Kidderminster and Bridgnorth which was named 'Top Preserved Railway'.

Birmingham's tourist attractions were rejected despite the city's multi-million
pound effort to become a 'must visit' destination.

It missed out on more than 15 awards including 'Aquarium of the Year', which
went to The Deep in Hull, 'National Museum of the Year', won by the National
Space Centre in Leicestershire, 'Best Gallery', taken by London's National
Gallery and 'City of the Year', won by Edinburgh.

Tourists chiefs were refusing to get too down-hearted, however.

Sam Warnock of the Birmingham Marketing Partnership said: "It's disappointing
but, with the recent opening of Millennium Point and other attractions,
hopefully we can be among the winners next year.

"There is pounds 3 billion of development under way at the moment that will turn
Birmingham into one of the UK's premier shopping destinations.

"That will bring in visitors from all over the country and we now have more
attractions for them to visit once they are here than ever before."

Meanwhile the latest edition of the Good Britain Guide, which is published
today, criticises more than two in five top tourist attractions for increasing
their prices for 2002 and by an average of 15 per cent.

About half of all hotels, inns, B&Bs and restaurants have also raised prices
although just over half of the Guide's 2,168 attractions, many reeling from the
effects of foot and mouth and the September 11 terrorist attacks, have held
their prices. Around 3 per cent, including one in four eating places, have cut
prices.

l What's your favourite attraction? Write to: Features Department, Evening Mail,
28 Colmore Circus, Birmingham B4 6AZ or email us at: EveningMail@mrn.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              44 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 4, 2001

Blair never in doubt over retaliation;
 WAR ON TERROR: The latest stories from around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 139 words


UK: Prime Minister Tony Blair today said he was never in any doubt what his
Government and the US had to do in response to the September 11 attacks and said
he still thought terrorists would launch a similar attack in Britain given the
chance.

In an interview with Time Europe magazine the Prime Minister said his first
thoughts after the hijacked airliner attacks on September 11 were shock, anger
and outrage. "When 4,000 people are murdered in New York in the middle of the
day, I honestly don't understand the argument of people who say we shouldn't
have done anything about it." And Mr Blair added: "They went after America
because America is the big power. But they were trying terrorist acts in Germany
and France the year before. I've got no doubt at all they would try to do
something in Britain if they could."

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              45 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           December 4, 2001, Tuesday

PLASTIC TAKES A HAMMERING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 179 words


CONSUMERS are collectively set to put a record pounds 7,300 on their plastic
every second in the run-up to Christmas, research reveals today.

Despite the terrorist attacks and fears that Britain may be heading for a
recession, UK shoppers look set to spend record sums during the festive season,
according to the Credit Card Research Group (CCRG).

The group predicts people will spend pounds 19.6billion during December,
14percent more than the previous year, putting pounds 9.2 billion on credit
cards and pounds 10.4billion on debit cards.

The high street is set to benefit most from the spending spree, with consumers
expected to put pounds 13billion-worth of Christmas presents and other purchases
on their cards this month, compared with the pounds 6.5billion they will spend
on hotels, entertainment and travelling.

CCRG director Steve Round said the UK had reached "a turning point in the
progression towards a cashless society," with almost half of all high street
spending expected to be put on cards for the first time ever during December.

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           December 4, 2001, Tuesday

BLAIR WARNS OF TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 275 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair was never in any doubt what his government and the US
had to do in response to the September 11 attacks.

And he still thinks terrorists would launch a similar attack in Britain, given
the chance.

In an interview with Time Europe magazine and website, he also refused to rule
out British involvement in any US-led military action against Iraq.

But he could not imagine British troops contributing to stability through long
-term peacekeeping in Afghanistan.

"You can't determine exactly the precise moment when our role ends, but it's not
our job through troops to reconstruct Afghanistan, " he said.

Asked whether the US would be alone if it attacked Saddam Hussein's government,
the premier insisted: "We haven't finished in Afghanistan yet."

He added: "These are questions the administration should answer for itself. But
the international coalition is a coalition against terrorism.

"People want to proceed according to evidence and according to a strategy that
delivers what we've set out to deliver, which is to end international terrorism
in all its forms.

"We've got other issues we have to tackle, but we'll do that in a deliberate,
considered way."

The Prime Minister said his first thoughts after the hijacked airliner attacks
on September 11 were shock, anger and outrage.

"I never had any doubt for an instant what the right thing was to do, what we
had to do and get others to do, " he added.

"When 4,000 people are murdered in New York in the middle of the day, I honestly
don't understand the argument of people who say we shouldn't have done anything
about it."

LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NO DOUBTS: Tony Blair CRISIS: A BOY BEGS ON STREETS OF KABUL

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              47 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

BLAIR'S LETTER TRIBUTE TO SPIES FOR HEADING OFF TERRORIST ATTACKS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8, 9

LENGTH: 417 words


BRITAIN'S secret agents have won a special tribute for foiling terrorist revenge
attacks since September 11.

In an unprecedented move, Tony Blair has written letters of thanks to the heads
of all the spy services.

The Prime Minister stressed they had done vital work in blocking al-Qaeda
attacks at home and overseas.

He said they had saved the lives of many civilians and of allied forces fighting
the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The letter's release by Downing Street reflects Blair's belief that the spy
agencies are the "unsung heroes" of the anti-terrorist campaign.

It is felt that while the SAS and Marines have won all the glory, undercover
operations have not been appreciated.

Blair told the spymasters: "The Government and British people are fortunate to
be served by security and intelligence organisations whose professionalism is
admired - and, by our enemies, feared - throughout the world.

"Vital work has been carried out before and after September 11 to disrupt
terrorist planning in the UK, Europe and further afield."

It's believed to have led to the arrest of 10 bin Laden supporters, who were
arrested at Heathrow before they could carry out terror missions in Britain.

And before the atrocities in the US, Britain's security agencies had already
picked up 16 Middle Eastern terrorists.

Blair's letter has gone to MI6 chief Richard Dearlove, in charge of overseas
spies, and Francis Richards, director of the GCHQ listening centre.

MI5 Director General Sir Stephen Lander, the head of security services operating
against terrorists in Britain, was also sent a special note.

Blair's spokesman said that for security reasons, he could not go into details
of what they had done.

But he made it clear their achievements had been significant, adding: "Members
of our intelligence services are putting their lives on the line for the
security of this country."

Agents are believed to have infiltrated terror groups and revealed details of
planned attacks and sources of finance.

This has led to tighter security in capitals and dozens of arrests in Europe.
Other agents in Afghanistan are thought to have blended in with the local people
to relay target details to allied bombers.

Agents have also provided "high quality intelligence" in the hunt for bin Laden.

Yesterday, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld publicly praised the British
special forces in Afghanistan as "some of the toughest, smartest troops in the
world".

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              48 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            December 3, 2001, Monday

SAVED BY OUR BRAVE SPIES;
 BLAIR: SECRET AGENTS FOIL TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 459 words


BRITAIN'S secret agents have won a special tribute for foiling terrorist revenge
attacks since September 11.

In an unprecedented move, Tony Blair has written letters of thanks to the heads
of all the spy services.

The Prime Minister stressed they had done vital work in blocking al-Qaeda
attacks at home and overseas.

He said they had saved the lives of many civilians and of allied forces fighting
the Taliban in Afghanistan.

The letter's release by Downing Street reflects Blair's belief that the spy
agencies are the "unsung heroes" of the anti-terrorist campaign.

It is felt that while the SAS and Marines have won all the glory, undercover
operations have not been appreciated.

Blair told the spymasters: "The Government and British people are fortunate to
be served by security and intelligence organisations whose professionalism is
admired - and, by our enemies, feared - throughout the world.

"Vital work has been carried out before and after September 11 to disrupt
terrorist planning in the UK, Europe and further afield."

The letter has gone to MI6 chief Richard Dearlove, in charge of overseas spies,
and Francis Richards, GCHQ listening centre director.

MI5 Director General Sir Stephen Lander, the head of security services operating
against terrorists in Britain, was also sent a special note.

Blair's spokesman said that for security reasons he could not go into details of
what they had done.

But he made it clear their achievements had been significant, adding: "Members
of our intelligence services are putting their lives on the line for the
security of this country."

Agents are believed to have infiltrated terror groups and revealed details of
planned attacks and sources of finance.

This has led to tighter security in capitals and dozens of arrests in Europe.

Other agents in Afghanistan are thought to have blended in with the locals to
relay target details to allied bombers.

UK information enabled Ministers to establish the guilt of Osama bin Laden and
al-Qaeda soon after the atrocities in America.

Agents have also provided "high quality intelligence" in the hunt for bin Laden.

Yesterday, US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld publicly praised the British
special forces in Afghanistan.

He said: "American special forces are helping the coalition, serving alongside
the British special forces - some of the toughest, smartest troops in the
world."

He praised Britain's "unhesitating and invaluable" contribution to the war
against terrorism - which was in a "dangerous phase".

On US television, he warned that if bin Laden is hiding in caves, no tactic
could be ruled out to trap him.

He said: "I guess one will do whatever it is necessary to do."

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              49 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                December 3, 2001

Rout of the Taliban: $ 1m each for the heroes of Ground Zero

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 284 words


FAMILIES of firefighters and police officers who died in the attack on the World
Trade Centre in New York are set to receive more than $ 1million each.

Hundreds of cash gifts from across the U.S. and around the world have boosted
the six disaster funds and more are pouring in.

Officials say each of the families of 343 firemen and 60 police officers will
receive more than $ 1million (GBP 700,000) most of it tax-free.

Tillie Geidel, 35, who lost her fireman husband Gary, still has to cash a cheque
for GBP 140,000 from the Twin Towers Fund and two from the Red Cross for GBP
14,000. 'I am not emotionally equipped to deal with this,' she said.

The huge sums collected by charities will be shared by the families of all the
victims, including civilian workers at the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

You've saved lives, Blair tells spy chiefs

BRITAIN'S secret agents have foiled terror attacks since September 11, a letter
by Tony Blair has revealed.

Writing to thank Britain's spymasters for their part in the war against
terrorism, he says: 'Vital work has been carried out before and after September
11 to disrupt terrorist planning in the UK, Europe and further afield.' He adds
that Britain's security and intelligence organisations are 'admired and by our
enemies feared throughout the world'.

'Without doubt, your work has saved the lives of innocent Afghans and members of
the Allied forces.' Mr Blair's letters to the heads of MI6, MI5 and GCHQ say:
'Be in no doubt members of our intelligence services are putting their lives on
the line for the security of this country.'Agents have been gathering
information behind enemy lines in Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: December 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              50 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                December 1, 2001

Rolls is secure, says MP

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 197 words


MP DOUG Naysmith has insisted that the future of the Rolls-Royce plant at
Patchway is secure - despite the loss of 450 jobs this week.

The Labour MP for Bristol North West said the plant was now more competitive
because it was "slimmed down" as part of 3,800 redundancies across Britain.

And he pledged to meet with the South West Development Agency to help draw up a
strategy to retrain those workers who were set to lose their jobs.

Dr Naysmith said: "I see Rolls-Royce as being slimmed down and very competitive
now. I think the future for the Rolls Royce factory is good in the long run.

"I will be approaching the RDA in Bristol and I am sure they will be very
helpful with retraining and relocation, with government backing."

Rolls-Royce has blamed the job losses on a worldwide downturn in the aviation
business following the September 11 terrorist attacks.

In Bristol, 450 of the 4,350-strong workforce will lose their jobs. The
reduction is expected to be achieved by the end of March next year. An
announcement is awaited on where 600 of the 3,800 redundancies will fall, and
another 1,000 temporary jobs will go worldwide by the end of 2002.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              51 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 30, 2001

War in Afghanistan: Lords defeat for government on anti-terrorism bill

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Chief political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 405 words


The government suffered the first of what could turn out to be many defeats over
its emergency anti-terrorism bill when peers voted to make its powers apply to
acts of terrorism in Britain, as well as abroad.

The government was defeated by 149 to 139, underlining its lack of a majority in
the upper house.

The bill's powers of detention and deportation in its original form did not
apply to acts of terrorism by non-EU members directed at Britain.

The detention powers only applied to international terrorism aimed at targets
abroad. The government argued that it already had powers to combat terrorism
directed at Britain in the Terrorism Act 2000.

The opposition was led by the Conservatives, but the Liberal Democrats
abstained, partly because they do not want to defeat the government during the
bill's committee stage.

Lord McNally, Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, later angrily accused the
Tories of hijacking the debate.

He said: "It has been disappointing to see the Conservatives hijack today's
debate. They chose to narrow the focus specifically to the situation in Northern
Ireland. Conservative peers refused to listen to the arguments of the government
and others and chose to pursue a narrow agenda. This sort of irresponsible
politics will get us nowhere in fighting terrorism at home and abroad."

Leader of the Tory peers, Lord Strathclyde, hit back saying: "This was a
striking result - all the more gratifying, given the inexplicable tactics of the
Liberals.

"Their so-called effective opposition fizzled out pathetically before the
starting pistol was even fired.

"As so often, the House of Lords has taken a commonsense line. The government
cannot claim to be against terrorism unless it is firm against all terrorists.

"There can be no case for distinction between a foreign terrorist plotting to
blow up New York and one plotting to blow up Canary Wharf.

"The man and woman in the street who are under threat from terrorists would not
begin to understand the government's motives in trying to exclude
domestic-related terrorism from this bill."

During the debate, the former cabinet minister Lord Tebbit accused the
government of "wishing to appease Irish republicans, including violent Irish
republicans".

A Home Office spokesman accused the Conservatives of time wasting, but did not
clarify if the defeat would be overturned in the Commons.


LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              52 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 29, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: FINANCE TRAIL: 78 BRITS KILLED IN ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 135 words


THE death toll of Britons from September 11's terror attacks in America is 78,
it was revealed yesterday.

Victims' families and their friends will today be joined by the Queen, Tony
Blair and ex-US president George Bush at a Westminster Abbey memorial service.

Representatives of New York City Mayor Rudolph Guiliani and Manhattan
firefighters will also attend.

The service comes after victims' families began talks over creating a permanent
memorial to the dead.

Only two Britons have so far been buried.

Tessa Jowell, the government minister co-ordinating support for victims'
relatives, said: "My hope is that the service will help families to move on if
they are ready."

FOREIGN tourists visiting Britain plunged by 26 per cent last month - the
biggest fall since the Gulf War.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              53 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 29, 2001, Thursday

CLEAN-UP OF NUKE WASTE TO SPEED UP

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 210 words


A SPEEDIER clean-up of Britain's decaying nuclear waste was ordered by the
Government yesterday.

Industry Secretary Patricia Hewitt wants a "Liabilities Management Authority" to
take over the job from British Nuclear Fuels - and its pounds 40billion cost.

Days ago a parliamentary report said urgent work was needed to bury the waste
underground so it is not vulnerable to terrorist attack.

Much of the spent fuel, equipment, nuclear material and waste is stored in tanks
and pits at Sellafield, Cumbria and Dounreay, northern Scotland.

An EU report has warned that a terror strike on an atomic plant would cause a
disaster worse than Chernobyl, killing more than a million people. The
establishment of a new clean-up body paves the way for partial privatisation of
state-owned British Nuclear Fuels as it will no longer have the huge debt on its
books.

But Ms Hewitt insisted the switch was more about dealing with the problem of
waste.

She told the Commons: "The Government's priority is the safe, secure and cost
-effective discharge of its nuclear liabilities in a way that ensures protection
of the environment."

Ms Hewitt said part-privatisation remained a target and the Government would
reconsider the position in 2004.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              54 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 29, 2001, Thursday

BELEAGUERED TOURISM MARKET BRACED TO LOSE POUNDS 40M NEXT YEAR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 324 words


UP TO pounds 40m could be lost from the Welsh tourism market next year as a
consequence of the terrorist attacks in America.

Operators predicted the 15pc decline as the UK tourism industry reported a 26pc
drop in overseas visitors for October, the biggest decline since the Gulf War.

The fall was even steeper than September, when numbers fell by 23.6pc compared
with September 2000, according to figures from the British Incoming Tour
Operators Association.

The association predicts that the number of visitors to Britain this year will
fall by around five million as the impact of both foot-and-mouth and more recent
events in America take their toll.

Forward bookings by overseas visitors last month dropped by 22pc.

The US is one of Wales's largest overseas markets with 152,000 visitors every
year spending around pounds 36m.

However, tourist chiefs expect an increase in the number of British tourists
holidaying at home next year. As a result, the Wales Tourist Board is planning a
major new TV campaign aimed at the UK market, which will be launched at the end
of this year.

Yesterday, John Wake a partner with Cardiff-based Wales Visitor Services, which
offers tourists personalised tours of the country, said he had noticed a big
fall in the number of overseas visitors this year.

"There's virtually none around except for those coming for specific events like
the Australians coming over for the rugby, " he said.

"Nearly all our specialised personal tours of Wales have been cancelled this
year because of foot-and-mouth and since September 11 we have only had one
inquiry."

A spokesman for Welsh historic monuments body Cadw said visitor numbers at its
sites were down by between 8 to 9pc this year, reflecting the decline seen by
all tourist attractions.

"A certain proportion of those will be from abroad as a result of foot-and
-mouth and the fallout from September 11, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              55 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 28, 2001, Wednesday

PACKAGE IS 'BITTER SWEET' SAY BOSSES;
 CHANCELLOR'S PRE-BUDGET STATEMENT

BYLINE: Colin Lewis Business Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 317 words


BRITAIN'S economy is still on course for growth, despite the fears of recession
triggered by the terror attacks of September 11.

That was the overriding theme of a positive pre-Budget statement by Gordon Brown
to the Commons.

He predicted economic growth, only slightly revised down, of 2 to 2.5 per cent
in 2002, rising to 2.75 to 3.25 per cent in 2003; this was despite a fall of 2
per cent in manufacturing growth.

The Chancellor re-affirmed Britain's position as the most recession-proof in
Europe. He reminded everyone that unemployment and interest rates were at their
lowest for more than 25 years, inflation was well under control, and national
debt was at its lowest since the First World War.

His confidence in the overall economy shone through the whole of his 40-minute
speech, which ended in a resounding pledge of support for Britain's pensioners
and an extra pounds 1 billion next year for the NHS.

The business community in the Midlands, however, greeted Mr Brown's economic
statement with distinctly mixed feelings.

Birmingham Chamber of Commerce described the economic package as "bitter sweet",
while in Coventry and Warwickshire, leaders were disappointed at what he didn't
say, regretting no mentions of transport infrastructure or an end to red tape.

They welcomed Gordon Brown's overall approach in trying to create a stable
economy strong enough to put Britain at the forefront of the G7 economies of the
West.

And they were glad to see measures to cut Capital Gains Tax and Corporation Tax
and to help small businesses with tax credits for training and research and
development, and the simplification of pay-roll administration.

But many were disappointed not to see any specific help for manufacturing, while
a massive pounds 2.8billion package of assistance was promised to rural
communities in the wake of the foot and mouth crisis.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              56 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 28, 2001

MILLIONS FOR WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 247 words


MILITARY chiefs, police, security services and aid agencies were yesterday
handed millions to help with their efforts in the war against terrorism.

The Chancellor gave GBP 100million to the Ministry of Defence to cover its costs
during the war in Afghanistan.

This was matched in extra aid for the war-torn country which Gordon Brown
described as a "duty".

Meanwhile, an extra GBP 20million has been put aside to cut off terrorists'
finances and other anti-terrorism measures.

The Chancellor also revealed a further GBP 30million will go to the Metropolitan
Police who have had to shoulder the cost of extra patrols since the attacks MI5
and MI6 will also receive GBP 20million more this year in another widely
predicted move.

Mr Brown has called for a "new deal for prosperity" to be forged between rich
and poor countries.

He said Britain would be proposing to the UN a new GBP 30billion international
fund "to help achieve for the developing countries after 2001 what was achieved
for Europe after 1945".

He said that prudence in the past meant that Britain had enough money in the
coffers to cope with the crisis. He explained that the unexpected costs of
Britain's role in the war against terrorism would not sway Labour from its
ambitious pledges on public services.

The Chancellor again added that he was "cautiously optimistic" about prospects
for the British economy, despite the economic fallout from the September 11
terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              57 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 28, 2001, Wednesday

3,300 MORE JOBS LOST AS SEPT11SLUMP HITS

BYLINE: Stephen White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 204 words

HIGHLIGHT: SLUMP: The Airbus


BRITAIN'S airline and travel industry was hit by the fall-out from the September
11 terror attacks yesterday with the loss of thousands of jobs.

Aerospace giant BAE Systems announced plans to axe almost 1,700 workers in the
North West of England and Scotland, including 219 at their Prestwick plant in
Ayrshire.

And holiday operators Airtours said it had cut 1,600 staff, including 200 in
Britain, in response to the World Trade Center attacks.

BAE Systems boss John Weston said they were forced to make the cuts due to a
"severe downturn" in the commercial aerospace market.

AEEU general secretary Sir Ken Jackson said: "This is a devastating blow for the
country's aerospace

And the union's Scottish regional secretary Danny Carrigan, said he would be
meeting the company in the next few days to discuss the cuts.

He added: "I am seeking an early meeting with a view to avoiding compulsory
redundancies."

Industry minister Brian Wilson said he hoped the total job losses could be
"significantly reduced" through redeployment within BAE Systems and other
companies.

He said: "We will work closely with the firm to maximise alternative
opportunities for employees."

s.white@mirror.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              58 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 27, 2001, Tuesday

LORDS WARN ON ATOMIC WASTE

BYLINE: Bob Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 215 words


A HOUSE of Lords committee warned last night that urgent measures are needed to
get nuclear waste into underground dumps as protection against terrorist attacks
.

They said nuclear waste facilities were "vulnerable to terrorist attack" in
spite of security reviews since September 11.

They also attacked Environment Minister Michael Meacher for delaying decisions
on how to dispose of thousands of tons of radioactive waste now building up in
Britain.

The Science and Technology Committee said: "The new awareness of terrorist
threats to vulnerable installations simplifies things by leaving deep
underground storage as the only realistic option."

A Government consultation process is already under way on how to store nuclear
waste - but it is expected to take at least four years to complete.

Britain's nuclear plants are producing 240 tons of high-level and 5500
intermediate level radioactive waste a year.

At present it is kept in temporary storage at power stations .

But an EU report has warned a terrorist attack on a nuclear plant could create
another Chernobyl-type disaster and kill more than a million people.

Committee chairman Lord Oxburgh said: "We have been generating waste for half a
century and have still not decided what to do with it."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              59 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 27, 2001

Battle for Afghanistan: UK visitor levels drop

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 75 words


BRITISH tourism has been hit harder by the terrorist attacks on the US than any
other European country, the Government has been told, writes Ed Harris.

The European Commission used a meeting yesterday to tell Trade and Industry
Secretary Patricia Hewitt that visitor numbers to Britain have fallen by more
than a third since the events of 11 September - because Britain is much more
dependent than other countries on long-haul tourists.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              60 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 27, 2001

British tourism hit harder than rest of Europe

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 113 words


BRITISH tourism has suffered more from the terrorist attacks in America than any
other European country, the Government has been told, writes Ed Harris.

The European Commission used a meeting yesterday to tell Trade and Industry
Secretary Patricia Hewitt that visitor numbers to Britain had fallen by more
than a third since the events of 11 September, while countries like Spain had
barely been affected.

The reason, according to the commission, was that Britain was much more
dependent than other countries on wealthy long-haul tourists. It added that in
the past, Britain and Ireland "have had the largest influx of American and
non-European visitors".


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              61 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 27, 2001

End of line for the last airliner made in Britain

BYLINE: Malcolm Withers

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 260 words


PRODUCTION of Britain's last major airliner, the RJ-100, better known as the BAe
146, is to end.

BAe Systems will axe 1,669 jobs and the move will cost the group GBP 370
million.

The firm blames falling orders for the short-haul aircraft, one of which crashed
in Switzerland last weekend, leaving 24 dead.

The group will remain Britain's biggest defence manufacturer and retain a 20 per
cent stake in the European Airbus. Orders for this aircraft have fallen to 300
from 320 as a result of the worldwide drop.

Most of the job losses will be at Woodside near Manchester, some of them offset
by specialist engineers being transferred to defencerelated work which will now
form 90 per cent of BAe's business.

Tour operator Airtours said today it has axed 1,600 jobs in the wake of the
terrorist attacks, adding to the 1,200 cut last year. But the group reported
record profits for the year and chief executive Tim Byrne declared the jobs cull
over.

Ryanair takes the airline price war to a different stratosphere today, giving
away 300,000 flights.

Stansted will have 200,000 free seats, with 50,000 from Glasgow and 50,000 from
Charleroi, Brussels.

Passengers will pay only taxes - around GBP 8.50 a flight. The offers are on
flights from 1-18 December and 8-31 January. "This is all about getting the
message across after the events of 11 September, about getting people flying
again and restoring confidence," said Ryanair chief Michael O'Leary. The tickets
are only available until the end of the week on www.ryanair.com.


LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              62 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 27, 2001, Tuesday

GENERAL PRAISES STRENGTHENED US-BRITISH LINKS;
 BUSINESS CLUB: AMERICAN ISOLATIONISM ON BACKBURNER, SAYS SIR MICHAEL

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 174 words


THE terrorism attacks of September 11 have helped remove the threat of American
isolationism, General Sir Michael Rose told a business audience at Cardiff's
Park Hotel last night.

Speaking to a meeting of Cardiff Business Club, Sir Michael, one of Britain's
most distinguished military figures, said American isolationism had at least
"been put firmly on the backburner, which is something that is good for the
world".

Sir Michael, who served as commander of the UN protection force in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, also praised Prime Minister Tony Blair for his strong support given
to America in the aftermath of the terrorism attacks in New York and Washington.

He said, "The old special relationship between Britain and the UK has been
renewed in an extraordinary public way."

Sir Michael said the war on terrorism would also mean changes for the world of
business, adding "There are already class actions in the US against directors of
companies who don't give their workforces the care and security which they are
owed."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BACKING: Sir Michael Rose at the Cardiff Business Club meeting;
Picture: SIMON RIDGWAY

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              63 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

Small groups now fear full-blown recession

BYLINE: By Gary Parkinson

SECTION: Pg. 33

LENGTH: 167 words

ALMOST two-thirds of directors of small companies believe that the terrorist
attacks of September 11 will condemn Britain to a full-blown recession,
according to research from Royal Bank of Scotland Commercial Services.

This comes less than a fortnight after Mervyn King, deputy governor of the Bank
of England, reaffirmed Britain's status as the fastest-growing major economy and
offered odds of only one-in-10 on a recession.

Despite Mr King's confidence, a quarter of the 308 businesses surveyed said they
had suffered as a direct result of the attacks. In Greater London, this rose to
57pc.

Half the companies, which have turnovers between pounds 50,000 and pounds 1m a
year, thought consumer confidence had been severely shaken and reckoned the
Government was not doing enough to help because of the resources it was
expending on the war effort.

Christmas looks bleak for many workers, with 7pc of the companies laying off
staff in the run-up to the festive season.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              64 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 26, 2001, Monday

MPS PREPARE FOR FINAL ATTACK ON TERROR BILL

BYLINE: Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 377 words


DAVID BLUNKETT, the Home Secretary, will face renewed Commons attacks over his
controversial package of anti-terrorism laws today.

He will encounter criticism from MPs of all parties worried by the moves
designed to crack down on terrorists attempting to take refuge in Britain.
Terrorist suspects will be automatically detained without trial under the plans,
while police will get wider powers to check bank and medical details.

Labour left-wingers and the Liberal Democrats will mount a final attempt to
water down the anti-terrorism Bill as it goes through its remaining Commons
stages before passing to the Lords.

Critics say the automatic detention move - which required Mr Blunkett to declare
a "state of public emergency" in order to opt out from part of the European
Convention on Human Rights - flies in the face of automatic justice.

They are also vowing a last-minute attempt to remove a clause that allows police
to obtain confidential documents from a suspect regardless of their relevance to
a criminal investigation.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said his party agreed with "quite
a lot" of the moves. But he warned: "If we allow ourselves to get into a
situation where in fact we are suppressing our own individual rights, actually
the terrorist begins to win. That is the balance I don't think is properly
judged by the Government. It is not good to make martyrdom of certain
individuals if you can deal with it in a more properly processed legal way,
which recognises the proper rights of the citizen."

The Home Office denied reports that Mr Blunkett was prepared to back off from
measures outlawing the incitement of religious hatred.

That section of his Bill faces an onslaught in the House of Lords from Tory and
Liberal Democrat peers who argue that it will inhibit free speech.

On Wednesday, the Government suffered the biggest backbench rebellion during
this Parliament over its plans to detain foreign terrorist suspects. A promise
by Mr Blunkett that the legislation would have to be reviewed in five years'
time failed to head off the criticism.

The biggest revolt came as 32 Labour MPs opposed powers that prevent the Home
Secretary's decisions being challenged by judicial review.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              65 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 New Statesman

                               November 26, 2001

My wife wants to introduce roadside castration for drivers who cut her up on
roundabouts

BYLINE: Tony Booth

LENGTH: 829 words


Acres of newsprint have been devoted to the appalling events in New York on 11
September and their aftermath. Here in Britain, it would appear that, now the
initial shock has begun to recede, certain commentators are beginning to feel it
is appropriate to start carping about the way Tony Blair has handled the crisis.
Why? It was clear moments after the terrorist attacks that America would want
revenge on those it held responsible. On 11 September, George Bush ran away and
hid in a bunker, abandoning the American people to face danger and death on
their own.

I believe the world has as much to fear from the potential extremes of
retaliation by a Bush administration, desperate to regain macho credibility, as
it does from Osama Bin Laden and the al-Qaeda terrorist network.

That the American response is as measured as it has been is, in no small part,
due to the restraining hand and personal courage of Blair. He has managed to
forge a united response to the terrorist outrage that, while rickety, is
holding. On BBC2 recently, Michael Cockerell was critical of the 'presidential
style' adopted by Blair during this crisis. During his programme, Cockerell
complained that Blair engaged on his frantic round of diplomacy with 'only'
Alastair Campbell and Anji Hunter as advisers.

But in the crazy and violent world in which we live, why risk the lives of other
senior members of the British government? Beside which, I can hardly envisage
Gordon Brown as a willing volunteer for these trips. As I recall, he wanted to
cancel this year's Labour Party conference, claiming that Brighton was an
altogether too dangerous place.


Over the past few days, there has been fairly extensive newspaper coverage of
Primrose Shipman and her re-quired attendance at the public inquiry into the
homicidal activities of her husband, the infamous Dr Harold. As George Orwell
pointed out, the English are fond of a good murder story, but what I am finding
particularly interesting in this case is the role the press are now ascribing to
Primrose Shipman. Her husband is a convicted serial killer, but with him safely
tucked away in a maximum-security prison, attention is now focused on the
unfortunate Mrs Shipman.

As with Sonia Sutcliffe, Peter (Yorkshire Ripper) Sutcliffe's wife, it seems we
are unable to accept the assertion that she knew nothing of her husband's
murderous activities. Why should this be so difficult to believe? It is a truism
that we cannot fully know another person, no matter how close we think we may
be. Perhaps it is the added misfortune of Mrs Sutcliffe and now Mrs Shipman that
they challenge our cultural misconceptions about the all-knowing wife.


I hate going to the barber's and have done so since childhood, when my
grandfather terrorised me with tales of Sweeney Todd. However, obeying my wife's
encyclical, I recently took myself into Glossop (Derbyshire) for a haircut. The
barber's chair is one of the few places where I usually have very little to say,
preferring the experience to be brought to an end as quickly as possible. To be
fair, my barber tends to feel the same way. However, last week she had barely
picked up the scissors before beginning to express her opinions on terrorism and
crime in general. I am not sure what brought on this sudden burst of
loquaciousness but, once started, she warmed to her theme.

Snipping away, she told me she felt crime figures would be drastically reduced
if we followed the example of certain Muslim countries and introduced 'proper'
punishment - chopping off the hands of thieves would be a good start. Far too
craven to argue with a woman with a pair of scissors in her hand, I tried to
show solidarity with her viewpoint. I explained how my wife wanted the
introduction of roadside castration for drivers who cut her up on roundabouts.
Deeply impressed by this barbarous notion, she stopped cutting my hair long
enough for me to point out she was almost down to the wood and I would be really
grateful if she would now stop. Who said women were the gentler sex?


There are rumours that, in the next education bill, the government may well
extend the powers of headteachers and governing bodies. There could be serious
flaws to this proposal, as the experience of our local comprehensive school,
Glossop- dale Community College, amply demonstrates. The college recently
experienced terrible turmoil when the headteacher was found guilty of gross
professional mis-conduct. During an unsettling 18 months while the head was
suspended and an inquiry conducted, the staff at the college managed brilliantly
to ensure that none of this was allowed to impact on the smooth running of the
school.

In contrast, I have been none too impressed with some members of the governing
body. Teachers seem to manage well without heads or governors, and I am afraid
they may need as much control and as many mechanisms for accountability as
anyone else.

Tony Booth is an actor


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                        Copyright 2001 New Statesman Ltd

                              66 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                               November 25, 2001

Race in Britain 2001: Inside our changing land

SECTION: Observer Special Supplement, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 198 words


THIS HAS been a momentous year for race relations in the UK. In early summer,
riots raged in Oldham and Bradford. Young British-Asian men fought the police as
decades of simmering resentment exploded in an ugly rage. And in June, the BNP
secured its best ever result in a General Election, gaining more than 11,000
votes in Oldham. A couple of months later, Firsat Dag, a 22-year-old Kurdish
asylum seeker, was murdered in Sighthill, Glasgow. And away from these domestic
events, the savage terrorist attack on America heightened tensions between
different communities around the world as well as in Britain. BUT SUCH
flashpoints tell only part of the story of race in Britain in 2001 - the
opportunities and disadvantages experienced daily by four million non-white
Britons. We wanted to tease out these other stories - and paint a portrait of a
country in transition. This resulting Observer, special is part celebration part
analysis, and part criticism. What it shows is a new country in the making, a
country where mixed-reaced relationships are on the rise, where obstacles to
public success are being quietly pushed back. Welcome to the new face of race in
Britain 2001.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 25, 2001

STAR WARS COSTS OUT OF CONTROL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 247 words


THE cost of America's Star Wars missile defence system is spiralling out of
control, raising new doubts about Tony Blair's backing for the controversial
project.

A new report in the US shows that President Bush's plans are set to become even
more dependent on British radar bases in North Yorkshire - because they are
cheap.

Arms control campaigners and Labour backbenchers last night united to condemn
the Government's eagerness to support a project that could cost British
taxpayers billions.

The study by a House of Representatives committee indicates the network of
satellites needed to spot enemy missiles will cost at least GBP 16.4billion,
more than twice last year's estimate.

The report concludes that "groundbased radars" - like those at Fylingdales and
Menwith Hill in North Yorkshire - "not only provide a viable alternative to a
space based system, but provide it at significantly lower cost and risk."

The spiralling costs suggest that Pentagon estimates that the system will cost
GBP 30billion over 20 years could also be wildly inaccurate.

And critics say the September 11 terrorist attacks show that "rogue states" with
ballistic missiles are not the biggest threat to Western security and will only
provoke a new arms race.

Labour MP Malcolm Savidge wants to know how much Britain will be expected to pay
towards the system.

"We should pay more attention to the defence of Britain than the support of the
US President, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              68 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                               November 25, 2001

PM SCORNS APPEAL TO SHUT N-PLANT

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 326 words


TONY BLAIR will this week defy demands from Irish premier Bertie Ahern for
Britain to close Sellafield nuclear power plant amid fears of a terrorist
attack.

Mr Ahern stepped up his attempt to stop next month's scheduled opening of a new
GBP 460million nuclear waste processor at Sellafield with a fullpage newspaper
advertisement demanding that the Cumbria site is abandoned.

The advert, signed by every member of his Fianna Fail ruling party, is part of a
long-running campaign by Dublin to bring international pressure on Britain.

The issue is certain to top the agenda when Mr Blair visits Dublin on Friday.

For many years, Dublin's concern focused on the threat of radioactive pollution
in the Irish Sea. But since September 11 the prospect of a terrorist attack on
the Cumbrian installation has intensified opposition in Ireland's capital, which
is just 60 miles away. Mr Ahern insists that the threat to the site is
"unacceptably increased" by the new MOX - mixed oxide fuel - operation.

He has dubbed the plant the biggest threat to Ireland's environment. His "Shut
Sellafield!" newspaper advertisement claims: "The safety of our people and the
environment of our countries is being needlessly put at risk."

Mr Ahern said his party, which faces a general election in the next year, wants
to put the antiSellafield case directly to the British people. The MOX
operation, he said, would turn the Irish Sea into the "end destination" for
nuclear waste from all over the world. It is due to be commissioned on December
20. He also attacked the safety record of British Nuclear Fuels as "appalling."

The Irish government plans to take its case to the European Court of Justice and
to challenge the development under the Ospar convention - a treaty to protect
the marine environment.

In the Court of Appeal this week, Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth will
continue a legal challenge to Government approval of the plant.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              69 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 24, 2001, Saturday

Air security poses 'threat to Sikh beliefs'

BYLINE: By Amit Roy

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 388 words

Sikhs have taken offence at new security regulations that prohibit them from
wearing the kirpan, a small knife which is an intrinsic part of their religion,
on flights leaving Britain.

The ruling was imposed by the British Airports Authority as part of an overall
tightening of security following the terrorist attacks on September 11.

This includes a ban on carrying sharp objects such as nail scissors and files,
razors, knitting needles and "knives of any length, made of any material and
sharp and strong enough to be used as a potential weapon".

"The orthodox are very serious about the kirpan," said Jasbir Singh Sachar, a
former secretary of the International Punjabi Society and publisher of the
annual Who's Who of Asians in Britain. "Those who believe in it believe in it
very strongly."

Since 1699, orthodox Sikhs have made it a point of honour to wear the five Ks -
Kesh (long hair), khangha (a comb), kaach (long underpants), kara (iron
bracelet) and the kirpan (dagger).

The ban applies not only to passengers but to hundreds of Sikh men who work at
airports, especially Heathrow, and who were previously allowed to wear a
"symbolic" kirpan so long as it was less than three inches long.

The London-based Confederation of Indian Organisations has expressed its
"dismay" and urged the BAA not to "compel Sikhs to compromise their beliefs".

A spokeswoman for the BAA said the ruling was not aimed specifically at Sikhs
but was an inevitable result of tightened security. She said that if the Sikhs
wanted to seek a special dispensation, they should take up their case with the
Department of Transport. Thousands of Sikhs have worked at Heathrow over the
past four decades without a single incident involving a kirpan.

Jasdev Singh Rai, from London, who is helping to organise talks with the Home
Office on behalf of a number of Sikh organisations, acknowledged that there were
"a number of security concerns" about the wearing of kirpans. "That is why we
want to hold a dialogue with a view to reaching an understanding," he said.

Piara Singh Khabra, Labour MP for Ealing Southall, who is a Sikh, has suggested
a compromise: "Perhaps the size of the kirpan should be reduced to an inch. What
we have is a conflict between religious principle and security for all
passengers."
[PS]Travel: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              70 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 23, 2001

SPEND, SPEND, SPEND!;
 Boom promises Xmas record for city stores

BYLINE: STEVE GRANT

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 361 words


BRISTOL'S retailers are set for a record Christmas as new figures show a bumper
year for the area's major shopping centres.

It's spend, spend, spend, at both Broadmead and The Mall at Cribbs Causeway.

This is despite a lack of spending, consumer confidence and a drop off in trade
elsewhere in the country, all of which have been linked to September's terrorist
attacks on America. Sales last week in Broadmead were up by 10 per cent on the
same week last year, according to monitoring firm, Footfall.

And at The Mall, sales were up 13.7 per cent between September 11 and November
11, compared with the same period in 2000.

Footfall says that in Britain as a whole last week, centres saw their sales fall
by nearly three per cent. Broadmead manager John Hirst said:

"The situation is dire in London and around London. People feel threatened and
Birmingham will suffer something similar.

"Business is booming in Bristol. We have had a cracking year at Broadmead so far
- everything is pointing to a record Christmas.

"The economy is buoyant and people seem to have lots of money. We are very
confident things will be good this Christmas - there's no reason why they should
not be."

He said more retailers are moving in and the dedicated Broadmead police team had
made a tremendous difference, assuring shoppers that they would not be accosted
by beggars.

Mr Hirst added: "Last Saturday, with the switch-on of the Christmas lights, was
a cracking day. We were very busy."

The number of visitors at The Galleries rose by up to 12 per cent over recent
weeks - and that is expected to rise again.

Spokeswoman Julia Denman said: "We are doing very well. Last Saturday we had
over 70,000 people in compared to about 50,000 on a normal Saturday. Our grotto
is very busy, toy sales are growing and we're maximising our sales by having
more short-term lets."

At The Mall, visitors and sales are 10 per cent up. Administration manager
Louise Owen said:

"All the retailers are very buoyant."

A spokesman for The British Retail Consortium said retailers in London had
reported a large drop in shoppers after September 11.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              71 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               November 23, 2001

Asians loyal to the UK

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 173 words


BRITISH Asians are overwhelmingly loyal to the UK about the present action
against terrorism, a survey has shown.

Interviews carried out by Mori for Eastern Eye, Britain's biggest-selling Asian
newspaper, revealed that 90 per cent voiced their loyalty to this country.

More than 87 per cent of Moslems say they are loyal to Britain, even though 64
per cent oppose the U.S. led strikes against Afghanistan.

Loyalty to the country is almost equally strong among young and old, a fact the
newspaper said destroys the myth that young Asians are a problem group.

More than half of all Asians think the U.S. led alliance is right to bring down
the Taliban regime in Afghanistan, and 62 per cent of Moslems say young British
followers of extremist groups are wrong to go to fight for it.

Half of those interviewed want to see them tried for treason if they return.

The poll also revealed concern over race relations in Britain, which most fear
have worsened since the terror attacks in America on September 11.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              72 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               November 23, 2001

UK faces further economic pain
 Tough months ahead - but recession likely to be avoided

BYLINE: Graeme Evans

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.14

LENGTH: 311 words


ECONOMIC experts braced businesses for more pain but insisted the UK was tough
enough to escape a full-blown recession.

Forecasts show that firms can expect another rocky few months as the impact of
the terrorist attacks in the US continues to take its toll on confidence.

The CBI has pencilled in a recovery by 2003 but added that progress hinged on
how quickly the US and other world economies improved.

The predictions came on the same day that official figures showed Britain's
economy grew by 0.5 per cent in the third quarter of this year, below the 0.6
per cent estimated last month.

The downward revision, which takes the annual rate of growth down to 2.1 per
cent from 2.2 per cent, reflects a weaker manufacturing industry and lower
service sector growth.

Publishing its latest quarterly economic forecasts, the CBI said growth for this
year would average out at 2.3 per cent before slowing to 1.7 per cent next year
and then rallying back to an average of 2.6 per cent in 2003.

The outlook for 2002 has been revised down by 0.8 per cent since August's
forecast because of the impact of events on September 11.

Manufacturing continues to bear the brunt, but household consumption - the main
driving force of the economy - is expected to slow from 3.9 per cent to 1.9 per
cent.

Britain is still considered by the CBI as the strongest of the major G7
countries.

Ian McCafferty, the CBI's chief economic adviser, said: "There will be a painful
slowdown into next year, but the UK economy is set to avoid outright recession.

"The real pressure will be on businesses that are exposed to the international
environment, which will exacerbate the two-speed economy.

"We should see the economy start to rally towards 2003, but the strength of this
relies heavily on the timing and momentum of the recoveries in the United States
and Europe."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              73 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 23, 2001

Spending fears hit shopping centres

SECTION: Business :Retail :Reps/Stat/Survey, Pg.74

LENGTH: 164 words


SOME of Britain's top shopping centres are reporting a downturn in visitors amid
fears that the events of September 11 have dented consumer confidence in the
run-up to Christmas.

Numbers fell nearly three per cent on average across the country in the week
beginning November 12 compared to the same time last year.

This is traditionally a busy month for big stores as people begin their
Christmas shopping, said monitoring firm Footfall, which analysed visitor
numbers at 50 locations. Consumer confidence had been low for some time amid
fears of an impending recession and the terrorist attacks had dented it still
further, said the company.

However, the British Retail Consortium was more upbeat even though "the people
who spend more come from the Middle East and the U.S. and they are not here any
more after September 11".

A spokesman said shopping habits outside of London had returned to normal and
stores were not unduly worried about a Christmas slump.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              74 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          November 22, 2001, Thursday

HATEFUL BNP AS BAD AS TALIBAN;
 CITY DIOCESE HITS OUT

BYLINE: Catherine Hendrick CONCERN: The Rt Rev Mark Santer

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 294 words


CHRISTIAN leaders in Birmingham claimed today they had been targeted by the
British National Party as part of a hate campaign against Muslims.

The Church of England responded by branding the BNP 'as bad as the Taliban' for
trying to pervert a religion to justify its own beliefs.

Leaflets trying to portray Islam in a negative light by selectively quoting from
the Koran have been sent to clergymen in Birmingham, it said.

The leaflets warn against the spread of Islam in 'Christian Britain'.

They were accompanied by letters claiming the BNP was the only pro-Christian
party.

Recently the BNP was blamed for sending leaflets out to parents in Sandwell and
West Bromwich following the terrorist attacks of September 11.

The leaflets urged them to take their children out of religious education
classes at school for fear of them becoming 'infected' by Islam.

Police, when contacted by West Bromwich West MP Adrian Bailey,

said they were unable to prosecute because the mail did not breach the Race
Relations Act as it was directed against a religion.

Honest

The Bishop of Birmingham, the Rt Rev Mark Santer, condemned the BNP's campaign
in the House of Lords when welcoming Government legislation to extend the law to
cover religion.

He said: 'No healthy religion has anything to fear from scrutiny and honest
debate.

'The problem arises when attacks on a particular religion are used as a cover
for racism and xenophobia.'

Today, a spokesman for the Diocese of Birmingham said: 'Our clergymen are
outraged that the BNP has claimed to be the only pro-Christian party.

'By trying to pervert a religion for their own evil ends, the BNP is as bad as
the Taliban.'

The BNP could not be contacted for comment.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              75 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 22, 2001

Two face cour t charged over bomb attacks;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 138 words


LONDON: Two men were appearing in court today charged in connection with the
recent bomb attacks in London and Birmingham.

One man has been charged with causing explosions at Ealing on August 3 and
outside the BBC in Wood Lane, also in west London, on March 3, Scotland Yard
said.

A second man was charged with causing an explosion in Birmingham on November 3.
He is also charged with possession of explosives found during searches in West
Yorkshire, and firearms offences.

Both men were further charged with conspiracy to cause explosions likely to
endanger life.

The two, arrested by Anti-Terrorist Branch officers in London and Liverpool last
week as part of an investigation into a suspected Real IRA bombing campaign in
Britain, were to appear at Belmarsh Magistrates Court in south east London.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              76 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 21, 2001, Wednesday

BLAIR'S 'DESTINY' VISION FOR BRITAIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 130 words


BRITAIN must not shy away from its "true destiny" of full involvement in a more
closely-integrated Europe, Prime Minister Tony Blair said yesterday.

Speaking to Germany's Socialist Party, the SPD, Mr Blair spelt out a vision of
closer co-operation on international aid, defence and foreign policy.

And he made clear he believes exclusion from the euro would harm Britain in the
long term.

In the wake of the September 11 terror attacks in the US, it was vital for world
leaders to show "boldness, courage and strength" in building international
solidarity, said Mr Blair He told the SPD party conference in Nuremburg: "New
Labour today has no hesitation in viewing the development of European
co-operation and integration as having major political benefits.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              77 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 21, 2001

Attacks acted as recession catalyst says OECD

BYLINE: Charlotte Denny and Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 384 words


The terrorist attacks on the United States have pushed the world economy into
its first recession in 20 years, a leading economic think tank said yesterday.

The Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, whose 30 member
countries account for most of the planet's wealth, said in its twice yearly
economic outlook that output was expected to fall by 0.3% in the second half of
2001 and would remain very weak in the first half of next year.

Much of the weakness is in the US economy, which the OECD expects to contract by
0.6% in the second half of this year and 0.1% in the first half of 2002 - a
markedly more pessimistic outcome than the US treasury expects.

While the downturn is sharper than that triggered by the Gulf war in the early
1990s, the OECD expressed hope that aggressive cuts in interest rates in the US
were probably enough already to secure a rebound in late 2002.

"I don't see this as a severe global recession," said the OECD's chief
economist, Ignazio Visco. Hard evidence of the collapse in global growth came
yesterday with news that Britain and the US saw their trade deficits shrink at a
record pace in September.

The UK's trade gap with the rest of the world more than halved to pounds 1.1bn
in September from pounds 2.3bn in August, the largest monthly fall since records
began in 1697, according to government figures.

The US commerce department reported an Dollars 8.4bn contraction in the American
trade gap over the same period to Dollars 18.7bn, from Dollars 27.1bn in August.

The weakening world economy dragged down US exports to Dollars 77.3bn, their
lowest value since March 1999, and imports fell by Dollars 15.6bn in the month
as domestic consumers stayed away from the shops after September 11.

In Britain, lower demand for goods such as electrical equipment accounted for
much of the fall in imports, according to officials, as the collapse in hi-tech
manufacturing took its toll. Imports of aircraft also stalled in September as
demand for air travel slid.

Provisional figures for British trade with non-European Union countries in
October show that, despite a 7.5% rebound in imports, the narrowing in the
deficit should persist: exports are recovering even more strongly, rising by
10%, or pounds 0.6bn.


LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              78 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 21, 2001, Wednesday

BLAIR HAILS EURO-LINKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 180 words


BRITAIN must not shy away from its "true destiny" of full involvement in a more
closely-integrated Europe, Prime Minister Tony Blair said.

Speaking yesterday to Germany's Socialist Party, the SPD, Mr Blair spelt out a
vision of closer co-operation on international aid, defence and foreign policy.

And he made clear he believes exclusion from the euro would harm Britain in the
long term.

In the wake of the September 11 terror attacks in the US, it was vital for world
leaders to show "boldness, courage and strength" in building international
solidarity, said Mr Blair He told the conference in Nuremburg, "A Europe that is
united can achieve far more as a force for good in the world than any member
state can on its own."

Mr Blair, who yesterday became the first British Prime Minister to address an
SPD conference, restated his support for the development of the European Rapid
Reaction Force for peacekeeping activities, denounced by its critics as an
embryonic Euro-army.

"We can see today more than ever why such a policy is necessary, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              79 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           November 20, 2001, Tuesday

AGENDA 2001: MOX PLANT 'COULD BE TERROR TARGET'

BYLINE: Mark Sage

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words

HIGHLIGHT: SELLAFIELD: legal bid to stop development of new nuclear facility


The Irish Government yesterday launched a legal bid to stop the development of a
new nuclear reprocessing facility at Sellafield, claiming it would make an
"attractive" terrorist target.

Attorney General Michael McDowell called on the United Nations International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea to suspend Britain's decision to allow the mixed
oxide fuel (MOX) plant to go ahead.

At the start of a two-day hearing he told the panel in Hamburg, Germany: "This
is about protecting the Irish Sea from further radioactive pollution.

"Manufacture is also vulnerable to accident and the MOX plant can only serve to
increase the attractiveness of subjecting Sellafield to terrorist attack."

But Britain hit back, claiming in a written submission that the tribunal "lacks
jurisdiction in this matter".

The Irish Government is asking for an international arbitration tribunal to be
set up under a UN provision to resolve the dispute.

In the meantime it has called on the Hamburg tribunal to order the immediate
suspension of the British decision, pending the conclusion of the arbitration.

Ireland is also seeking British guarantees that there will be no movement of
radioactive material through Irish waters. Campaigners in the east of Ireland
have alleged for years that the Cumbrian site is responsible for a higher-than
-average cancer rate.

Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern has attacked the decision and many protesters
have pointed out that Sellafield is closer to Dublin than to London.

At the High Court in London last week, Greenpeace and Friends of the Earth
failed to have the MOX plant's commissioning declared unlawful. The tribunal in
Hamburg is expected to deliver its decision by December 9.

Meanwhile, Irish Senator Fergus O'Dowd said he was setting up a coalition to
bring together members of the European Parliament who are opposed to Sellafield
in a joint campaign to have the plant shut down.

Senator O'Dowd, of the main Irish opposition party Fine Gael, said greater
international pressure is the only way to prevent the MOX plant from going
ahead.

"Initial contacts are very encouraging. Parliamentary pressure applied in an
organised and planned way right across Europe would significantly increase the
pressure on the British Government to close Sellafield," he said.

"Increasing pressure at an international level is the only way in which the
British Government will rethink its policy on Sellafield. Clearly, Bertie Ahern
and his Government are having little effect to date," he added.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 20, 2001

IRA suspects 'still held';
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 81 words


NATIONAL: Police were yesterday given fur ther time to continue questioning
seven men being held in connection with an investigation into a Real IRA bombing
campaign in Britain.

An eighth man was arrested on Sunday.

Anti-terrorist officers obtained a custody extension from magistrates to
continue questioning six men in London until tomorrow afternoon.

The arrests came as anti-terrorist officers swooped on a disused pig farm at
West Ardsley on Thursday afternoon.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              81 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 20, 2001

War in Afghanistan: 'Code' taps linked Islamist cell to attacks

BYLINE: Giles Tremlett in Madrid

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 466 words


Phone taps which talked in code about "aviation" two weeks before the September
11 attacks led to the breaking up of an Islamist cell by police, Spanish
prosecutors said yesterday.

Allegations that Abu Dahdah and seven others remanded in custody were involved
in September 11 plotting were based on phone taps and an address book found at
the Hamburg apartment of suicide pilot Mohammed Atta.

The taps quoted by Judge Baltasar Garzon, the examining magistrate leading the
investigation into the group, re vealed that Abu Dahdah, the Syrian-born Spanish
leader of the group, and a mysterious caller, known as Shakur, were talking in
code about "aviation" two weeks before the September 11 attacks.

"In our classes we have entered the field of aviation and we have even cut the
bird's throat," Shakur told Abu Dabbah on August 27.

"The extreme security measures and the cryptic conversations indicate that they
were referring to the September 11 attacks," the judge said in his court order
remanding in custody eight of the men arrested in Madrid last week.

The cell was in close and continuous contact with Islamic militants in Britain,
police said.

Abu Dahdah made 20 trips to Britain in four years to confer with British-based
militants, according to court documents seen by the Guardian.

Judge Garzon yesterday named Abu Dahdah's four main contacts in Britain.

Head of the list was Abu Qatada, a Jordanian cleric living in London who has
repeatedly denied involvement with al-Qaida, and is reportedly on a list of
suspects MI5 wants to intern if legislation is passed.

Judge Garzon described Abu Qatada as "the spiritual leader of mojahedins across
Europe".

He also named his former "right-hand man" Abu Walid, who is now believed to be
in Afghanistan, as another principal Abu Dahdah contact in London.

The two other people named by Judge Garzon were Abu Al Hareth, considered to be
the "official representative of Osama bin Laden in the United Kingdom", and a
former mojahedin leader in Bosnia named as Abu Bashir.

All the names are believed to be aliases.

Abu Qatada, whose real name is known to be Omah Abu Omar, was sentenced to life
imprisonment by a Jor danian military court in 1999 for his alleged involvement
in a series of bombings.

He was granted political asylum in Britain in 1993.

The Jordanian authorities believe he is linked to Bin Laden and helped finance a
group of 13 extremists arrested in Jordan on suspicion of planning terrorist
attacks to coincide with the millennium.

Abu Qatada was arrested by British police in February along with a group of
Algerian al-Qaida suspects, but released without charge.

His British bank account was frozen two months ago after he appeared on a US
Treasury blacklist.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                      November 20, 2001, Tuesday Edition 1

Sellafield legal battle by Ireland

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: LOCAL NEWS, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 257 words







Ireland yesterday took its case against the Sellafield nuclear reprocessing
plant to an international tribunal, urging the court to suspend a British
decision to allow the facility to start work.

"This is about protecting the Irish Sea from further radioactive pollution,"
Irish Attorney General Michael McDowell told the Hamburg based International
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea at the start of a two day hearing.

The Irish submission to the court also claimed: "Manufacture is also vulnerable
to accident and the MOX plant can only serve to increase the attractiveness of
subjecting Sellafield to terrorist attack."

Campaigners in the Irish east coast towns of Dundalk and Drogheda have alleged
for years that citizens suffer a higher-than-average incidence of cancer, which
they blame on the Sellafield nuclear site in Cumbria.

Britain's decision last month to authorise the Sellafield to begin production of
mixed-oxide fuel at its MOX plant a facility mothballed since 1996 because of
financial and safety concerns provoked fury in Dublin.

The Irish government is asking for an international arbitration tribunal to be
established under a UN provision to resolve the dispute, and wants the Hamburg
tribunal to order immediate suspension of the British decision pending its
conclusion.

The British government argued in a written submission that the court "lacks
jurisdiction in this matter."

The tribunal is expected to deliver its decision by December 9.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              83 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 20, 2001, Tuesday

SELLAFIELD ROW AT THE UN TRIBUNAL

BYLINE: Paul Clarkson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 139 words


IRELAND took the fight against Britain's MOX nuclear plant at Sellafield to the
UN International Tribunal yesterday.

Attorney General Michael McDowell told the tribunal for the Law of the Sea the
Cumbrian plant was a major risk to Ireland's security in a terrorist attack.

The government lawyer added: "This is about protecting the Irish Sea from
further radioactive pollution."

The state counsel told the tribunal hearing in Hamburg, Germany, that production
of the mixed oxide fuel should stop until a decision can be made.

But Britain slammed the hearing, claiming in a written submission that the
international tribunal "lacks jurisdiction in this matter".

Taoiseach Bertie Ahern attacked the decision made by Tony Blair's cabinet, with
protesters pointing out Sellafield was closer to Dublin than London.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              84 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 19, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: THE HOME SECRETARY EXPLAINS WHY THE LAW MUST CHANGE TO MAKE OUR
CITIES SAFE FROM TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: David Blunkett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 428 words


THERE are many difficult challenges which come with the job of Home Secretary
but none is more testing than the responsibility to do everything possible to
protect our lives from terrorist attack.

After September 11, I listened to the reports of answerphone messages and
families putting up posters of the people they had loved most in the world with
the same distress and sorrow that was felt across Britain.

But I also knew that mine was the responsibility to ensure that our laws did
everything possible to deter and disrupt terrorists from attempting the same
horrors here.

I found our laws, although generally tough from years of fighting Irish
terrorism, were not as robust as they needed to be.

We face a new generation of mobile phone terrorists, using sophisticated fake
IDs and the internet.

These people exploit ease of travel in Europe - and in some cases - the
hospitality we give asylum- seekers - to plot death and terror.

I have said repeatedly since September 11 that there is a heightened level of
threat to the UK and we have taken steps to protect ourselves.

One essential step is the right to detain those who we believe to be a threat to
our security, who claim asylum as soon as they are picked up in a bid to avoid
being detained.

This is only ever likely to be a small number of people but I cannot let them
roam the streets and give them the opportunity to disappear.

The evidence against these people will be based on intelligence, so I can't
publish it in open court without giving Osama bin Laden information about our
security services. However, any decision I take to detain such individuals will
be scrutinised and can be overturned by a special committee headed by a High
Court judge who will have access to all the secret intelligence.

Anyone facing this process will be represented by a lawyer with full access to
the evidence.

I don't have a problem with anyone raising questions about human rights. As far
as I am concerned our most basic right is the right to live peacefully and
safely, protected from the likes of those who fly aircraft full of innocent
people into office blocks.

To defend our freedom to live the way we choose, we occasionally have to
restrict that freedom.

It is not something I do lightly or that I intend to be permanent.

But the responsibility to make Britain a difficult place from which to commit
terrorist acts rests largely on my shoulders.

Future generations would never forgive me, or the Government, if we failed to
take this threat seriously.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              85 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                               November 18, 2001

Don't tell Sid. . . but he's lost his nerve;
SHOCKWAVES FROM SEPTEMBER 11 FRIGHTEN SMALL SHAREHOLDERS INTO SELLING UP

BYLINE: Andrew Oxlade

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 432 words


MORE than a million investors in Britain's most popular shares have baled out in
the past year, according to figures compiled by Financial Mail's sister website
This is Money.

So-called Sids, the small investors who received or bought shares in the big
flotations of the Eighties and Nineties, appear to have been particularly
spooked by the wild market turbulence since September 11.

Halifax, now called HBoS after its merger with Bank of Scotland, has seen the
biggest exodus. HBoS's army of investors shrank from 3.4 million in October last
year to 2.8 million last week, despite an extra 100,000 Bank of Scotland
shareholders coming on board when the merged companies began trading on the
Stock Exchange on September 10.

About 350,000 HBoS investors are estimated to have sold since the merger.

But many chose the wrong moment. The week before HBoS was listed on the stock
market, Halifax shares traded at about 820p.

After the terrorist attacks they fell 20 per cent. At its demutualisation in
1997, Halifax had eight million shareholders.

Other former mutuals have seen similar levels of desertion.

Abbey National, floated in 1989, has seen its investor base slide from 2.5
million to two million over the past year.

And Bradford & Bingley, which had 1.7 million shareholders at its flotation last
December, now has 1.46 million.

A recovery in bank shares in the first half of this year may have sparked the
exodus. An HBoS spokesman said: 'Many people were given shares and see them as
money for nothing, so they were happy to cash in as they rose to the 820p
level.' CGNU is another example. The former life assurance mutual, with 632,321
shareholders, bought out another former life society, Norwich Union, last year
and adopted its 1.17 million shareholders. Yet CGNU now has only 958,000
investors.

Where investors have actually bought flotation shares rather than been given
them, companies have seen only slight falls in numbers.

Investors in poorly performing BT appear to have remained loyal.

The company has lost only about 20,000 investors this year.

BG and Centrica, formed from British Gas whose 1986 flotation spawned the Tell
Sid advertising slogan also seem to have held on to most investors.

Companies whose shares are no longer among the 10 most widely held include
former building society Alliance & Leicester bank and National Grid.

This year's figures are based on estimates from each company and compared with
numbers published in October by ProShare, an organisation that encourages share
ownership.


LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: TELLING SID: AN ADVERT FOR THE BRITISH GAS FLOTATION

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              86 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          November 17, 2001, Saturday

KNIGHTHOOD CONFUSION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 85 words


CONFUSION surrounds the presentation of New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's
honorary knighthood.

Buckingham Palace thought a provisional date had been arranged for Giuliani,
honoured for the support he gave Britons bereaved by the World Trade Centre
terrorist attacks, to collect his award from the Queen on November 29.

But the mayor's office in New York said he had no immediate plans to visit
Britain. Giuliani's spokeswoman said the mayor had never planned to visit London
on November 29.

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              87 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 17, 2001, Saturday

BOMB FARM;
 EXPLOSIVES FIND BEATS CHRISTMAS TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: Jeff Edwards Chief Crime Correspondent And Steve Dennis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 371 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEN OF TERROR: Armed police guard a farm in West Ardley, West; Yorks,
where they found bomb-making equipment


POLICE believe they have smashed plans for a Christmas bomb blitz by the Real
IRA.

Officers carried out a series of controlled explosions at a farm near Leeds
which they suspect was being used as a bomb factory for six months.

Six men arrested in raids in London and Liverpool were yesterday being
questioned about terrorist attacks in Britain in the last two years.

All are believed to be in the Real IRA. Five come from Ireland and the sixth is
said to be Welsh.

A senior Scotland Yard source said: "We have stopped a plot to set off three or
four car bombs in British cities during the run-up to Christmas.

"We believe we have prevented a great loss of life and a huge amount of damage
to businesses in London and elsewhere."

Clues found in the car bomb which failed to detonate in Birmingham two weeks ago
led to a house in Edmonton, North London, and another in Liverpool.

Correspondence at the London address led officers to the disused pig farm near
West Ardsley, West Yorks.

Detectives found bomb making equipment including plastic explosives, sacks of
fertiliser, improvised timers, batteries, fuses, wiring and other equipment
during raids on all three premises.

About 20 families living near the farm were evacuated as the explosions were
carried out in case the buildings were boobytrapped.

An infants school remained closed as officers carried out an inch by inch search
of the property yesterday.

A second set of farm buildings used as a store for animal feed about half a mile
away was also being examined.

Villager Clifford Binks said: "We heard the farm had been rented out to an
Irishman during the summer. No one saw much activity there but we could hear the
comings and goings from the place at night."

The houses in Liverpool and London were also being searched. Police erected a
10ft plywood fence around the London house as a team of forensic experts moved
in.

They also removed a Red Ford Sierra parked outside. It was covered with a
tarpaulin and taken away on a trailer.

Postman Andy Clark, 34, who arrived just after the police raid, said: "The place
was swarming with police. The front door had been smashed in and all the windows
broken."

LOAD-DATE: November 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              88 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 16, 2001, Friday

AIRPORT BUCKS NATIONAL TREND;
 FALL-OFF IN BUSINESS LOWER THAN RIVALS

BYLINE: Ben Hurst TRADE HOLDS UP: Birmingham International Airport

SECTION: Pg. 25

LENGTH: 265 words


BIRMINGHAM International Airport is bucking the trend of falling passenger
numbers by posting a drop far below its rivals.

Around the country there was a drop off of about 12 per cent during October
compared to last year, according to airports operator BAA.

But Birmingham has seen an overall decrease of 5.9 per cent since the September
11 terror attacks on the States - significantly less than elsewhere.

New routes

Britain's biggest airport at Heathrow, which has large numbers of Transatlantic
flights has seen numbers fall by a fifth.

The strength of operations can be partially put down to the airport's new routes
to the Indian sub continent which rose by more than a fifth in October, compared
to 12 months ago.

In spite of this some building work has been put on hold until there are clear
financial forecasts for next year.

Overall Birmingham International handled 715,733 passengers in October, with
scheduled traffic falling by 7.9 per cent and charter business down three per
cent.

Brian Summers, airport managing director said: 'Whilst the impact of September
11 on passenger numbers accelerated in October, the reductions are in line with
expectations.

'The level of continuing impact and the length of decline in traffic remains
extremely difficult to predict.

'For example charter traffic levels were again reflecting the pre-booked levels
for the last month of the summer season.'

Birmingham's lack of flights to the USA proved to be a boon, because this market
has seen a significant collapse following the terrorist atrocities.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              89 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 16, 2001

Letter: Questions of loyalty for Muslims

BYLINE: ZH Naqvi

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 214 words


Thanks for Gary Younge's excellent article (Comment, November 12). Ever since
the September 11 attacks, my loyalty to Britain, as a Muslim, has been
repeatedly questioned by parts of the media. I have been made to feel like a
terrorist, somehow, responsible for the terrible attacks on New York. I wondered
at times whether I should surrender myself to Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch.

I have to condemn these terrorist attacks louder than other citizens, as
anything less disguises hidden support for the murder of innocent civilians.
These civilians are the only ones I'm allowed to grieve for. I cannot oppose the
bombing of Afghanistan, as this amounts to treason, because our troops are out
there. I cannot condemn the killing of Palestinian civilians, as this means I
support Hamas and Hizbullah. I cannot oppose the sanctions on Iraq as this
implicates me in the development of weapons of mass destruction. In fact, I
cannot support any cause involving Muslims around the world as this betrays
loyalty to Queen and country.

A non-Muslim Briton taking up any of these issues would be simply regarded as a
humanitarian, concerned about the welfare of fellow humans around the world. Not
me though. Its good to be British.

ZH Naqvi

Ilford, Essex


LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 16, 2001

Food and care, not bombs and missiles;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 395 words


I FELT a very proud Welshman when I handed in a 3,500-signature petition to the
Secretary of State at the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff this week.

Representing the views of many people in the Cardiff south-east Wales area, they
were signatures collected during the previous 10 days.

The war against Afghanistan is cruel, unjust and counter-productive.

It makes everyone everywhere less safe.

It does nothing to secure justice for the victims of the atrocities committed on
September 11 in the US and, far from deterring terrorism, it makes further
terrorist attacks more likely.

This war heaps yet more violence and injustice on millions of innocent Afghan
people who have done no harm to the people of Britain or the US.

It is criminal to punish them for the act of a small number of religious bigots
who were originally funded by the US.

Every day, more and more civilians are being killed in Afghanistan.

A million face starvation, according to the aid agencies. This is not a war
against those who committed the terrorism on September 11, but against the
people of Afghanistan. The war is being waged by the richest countries of the
Earth against one of the poorest.

It will result in more years of suffering for the desperate people of
Afghanistan.

What they need from us is food and care, not cruise missiles, bombs and armed
invasion.

In particular, the atrocious weapon that is being used and tested on the Afghan
people is not one that can destroy military installations but one that will
cause the maximum death to thousands of innocent civilians.

It is a giant cluster bomb of the worst possible sort and why use it on a
country such as Afghanistan, which has no military installations at all,
goodness only knows.

Leading charities, including Christian Aid and Oxfam, have called for a halt to
the military attacks so that emergency relief can reach those who are starving.

Why, in God's name, is the British government going along with the United
States?

History will condemn this so-called Labour, one-time socialist government.

On behalf of the Coalition To Stop The War and the many peace-loving Welsh
people, I call on the British government to halt the war and get in the badly
needed emergency aid as quickly as possible.

RAY DAVIES Chairman, South Wales Coalition To Stop The War.

Bedwas

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              91 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 15, 2001

UK 'to avoid recession';
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 86 words


NATIONAL: The Bank of England last night predicted that the UK was on track to
avoid recession next year despite new figures showing the first increase in
claimant count unemployment for a year.

The Government-preferred International Labour Organisation jobless total also
went up, the first time both measures of unemployment increased at the same time
for nine years.

Union leaders, however, pointed out that the figures did not take account of
huge lay-offs announced since the US terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              92 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 15, 2001

Europe's tourism drop;
 Round-up: All the latest war stories

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 65 words


EUROPE: Britain and Ireland have been hardest hit in Europe by a dramatic
reduction in tourism since the terrorist attacks on America, a European
Commission report has revealed.

The volume of visitors to both countries from America, Japan and the Middle East
has dropped by one third, although some EU destinations, including Spain and
Portugal, have hardly been affected at all.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              93 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 15, 2001

CONSUMERS ALL SET TO CASH IN AS TOP LOW-COST AIRLINES VOW 'CHEAP AIR TRAVEL IS
HERE TO STAY'; FLIGHT FARES DOWN AGAIN

BYLINE: BY GEOFF MARSH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 373 words


CONSUMERS were celebrating last night after Britain's airlines promised a fresh
round of "giveaway" fares.

The leading low-cost airlines said "cheap flights are here to stay" as they
fought to restore consumer confidence in the wake of the September 11 terror
attacks and the crash of an American Airlines jet on Monday.

easyJet has run a number of special offers in recent weeks and last night said
it would be launching a new campaign around Christmas. A spokeswoman said: "We
have increased the availability of our lowest price seats to keep demand high
since September 11 and will continue to run low-cost promotions. We will be
launching a new campaign in the near future."

Ryanair, the low cost carrier from Ireland, is offering GBP 12 Christmas
getaways to popular European cities such as Copenhagen, Salzburg, Brussels and
Biarritz. Passengers can choose the one-way fares from 34 European destinations
in Italy, France, Sweden, and Germany.

easyJet is launching the new offer, despite sales levels returning to where they
were before the terror attacks, following a 26 per cent plunge on September 12.
It now costs as little as GBP 40 return to fly with the airline from London
Luton to Madrid, Barcelona or Palma. Since September 11, only airlines offering
low prices have done well. Go has seen capacity increase by 50 per cent, easyJet
by 27 per cent and Ryanair 10 per cent.

A Go spokeswoman said last night:

"At the moment low cost airlines are doing particularly well.

"We have just finished a big sale on all our routes which has been very
successful. We don't have any promotions planned in the next few days bu t the
low-cost airlines are faring bette r because we don't have transatlanti c
flights."

Go have already slashed thei r prices from London Stansted. It no w costs just
GBP 17.50 to fly to Venice an d GBP 20 to Bilbao. Earlier this week BMI British
Midland, the country's secon d biggest scheduled airline, confirmed i t was
effectively becoming a budget airline - meaning a flood of cheap tickets as it
competes with other low-cost airlines. But all operators now face a massive
struggle, after the lates t plane crash in New York further shoo k the
beleagured industry.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              94 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                     November 15, 2001, Thursday Edition 1

Insurance giants in the money

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: BUSINESS, Pg. 37

LENGTH: 198 words







The uk insurance industry has nearly tripled its income from premiums in the
past decade, a report revealed yesterday.

Last year UK insurers took in more than 174bn in total worldwide premiums
compared with 66bn in 1990, according to research by International Financial
Services London.

More than three-quarters of the industry's total premiums came from long-term
insurance such as pensions and life insurance. The group said an increase in
pension sales was the main factor leading to the surge.

London on wrong road

LONDON'S position as a world-class city is being hit by a damaging lack of
investment, Britain's biggest property group Land Securities said yesterday.

Failure to spend cash on London's infrastructure, particularly on the transport
network, was "eroding" its role as a leading financial and cultural centre.

Chairman Peter Birch said the impact of the terrorist attacks in the US on
tourist visitors to the UK had merely heightened his concerns.

Despite slower rental growth and the uncertain economic conditions, the
company's first-half pre-tax profits rose 13pc on a year ago to 168.6m.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              95 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Aberdeen Press and Journal

                               November 14, 2001

UK catering supplier warns slowdown will bite hard

BYLINE: by msimlett

SECTION: BUSINESS:FARM/FOOD:News, Pg.11

LENGTH: 247 words


Michael Simlett

BRITAIN'S biggest supplier to the catering trade saw its share price slump
yesterday as it warned that the economic slowdown would hit trading harder than
previously expected.

Brake Bros' shares dived more than 10%, to 465p yesterday after the group said
the economic downturn in the UK and France had been compounded by the terrorist
attacks on September 11.

The firm said yesterday: "November and December are the two most important
trading months for the group and, as such, the final outcome for the full year
remains difficult to predict.

"However, if the trading conditions experienced in the last two months persist,
then the outcome will be materially below the consensus of current market
expectations."

It said actions were being taken to contain costs and a further trading update
would be provided in early January.

Brake Bros is the second-biggest distributor of frozen and chilled products in
France and also has three Scottish depots - in Motherwell, Inverness and
Broxburn, West Lothian.

Its sales team north of the border now has about 20 products branded as unique
to Scotland - from morning rolls to Lorne sausage for the domestic market and
from scampi to desserts for the national palate.

The company recently increased its interests in Northern France after buying the
regional wholesaler VDL for GBP 3million.

It also acquired Scotia Campbell Marine (SCM), a supplier of fresh fish and
seafood to caterers, for GBP 4million.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                   Copyright 2001 Aberdeen Press and Journal

                              96 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 14, 2001

Stock market recovers;
 news from Britain and around the world

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 67 words


LONDON: The London market made a full recovery yesterday after fears that the
New York plane crash was another terrorist attack were proved unfounded.

Traders on both sides of the Atlantic rushed to sell up after yesterday's crash,
causing markets to slump.

But as trading in London got under way, the FTSE 100 Index of blue chip stocks
recovered all of yesterday's near-100 point loss.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              97 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               November 14, 2001

Poll shows UK Muslim opposition

BYLINE: Peter Kellner

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 282 words


ONLY one in seven British Muslims backs the military action in Afghanistan,
according to a survey conducted for the BBC's Today programme.

Four out of five say that Britain and the United States were wrong to launch a
bombing campaign.

However, a mere two per cent say the initial terrorist attacks against New York
and Washington were "completely justified". A further 13 per cent say it was
"somewhat justified"; 81 per cent think it was not justified at all.

In the first properly conducted poll of this crisis of Britain's Muslim
community, ICM interviewed 500 Muslims across Britain by telephone.

Views are broadly similar across all demographic groups, with men and women, old
and young, and workingclass and middleclass Muslims thinking alike.

Key to the community's majority opposition to the military campaign is its
unwillingness to accept that Osama bin Laden is guilty of organising the 11
September attacks. Only 21 per cent think the US is justified in blaming him; 67
per cent disagree.

Only 34 per cent agree with Tony Blair and President Bush when they say theirs
is not "a war against Islam".

Fifty-seven per cent disagree. As many as 76 per cent think the military action
should "stop now". Seven per cent think it should continue until Bin Laden has
been killed or captured, while a further 12 per cent think it should continue
until the Taliban regime has been removed from power.

The poll suggests that most British Muslims who oppose military action would
back non-military measures to defeat the terrorists. Four out of 10 Muslims who
oppose military action say they would have backed it had it been given
"specific" UN approval.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              98 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                               November 14, 2001

30,000 MORE JOBS AT RISK

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 157 words


A FURTHER 30,000 manufacturing jobs in Britain are at risk from the sharp drop
in business confidence experienced in recent months, the Confederation of
British Industry warns.

Its latest regional trends survey reported business confidence had waned in
every region of the UK, with the largest ever fall in export optimism since
1990.  This survey shows that in every region of the UK manufacturers, already
under pressure from the slowdown, have had their confidence further knocked by
the terrorist attacks,'' said Sudhir Junankar, CBI Associate Director of
Economics.  It confirms the slowdown is widespread and explains the concern that
led to the Bank of England's half-point rate cut,'' he added.

Last week the BoE cut rates to a fresh 37-year low of four per cent. Based on
the latest survey, the CBI estimates that a further 30,000 manufacturing jobs
will be lost in the fourth quarter of the year.


LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              99 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 14, 2001, Wednesday

SUZY IN THE CITY: TERROR BLOW TO JOBS

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 116 words

HIGHLIGHT: FEAR: McMillan


THE terror attacks on the US will lead to 4,000 Scottish manufacturing jobs
being axed by Christmas, according to the CBI.

Their latest Regional Trends Survey predicts that one in four firms will be
forced to shed jobs.

The CBI found that Scotland is among four areas in Britain worst hit by a slump
in exports in the wake of the US attacks.

CBI Scotland director Iain McMillan said: "The outlook is very bleak for
Scottish manufacturers.

"Clearly confidence - which was already weak as a result of the global slowdown
- has been further dented by the attacks on the US.

"Many Scottish manufacturers expect a big fall in orders, output and jobs in the
next few months."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              100 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2001

BLAIR GETS ON HOTLINE TO BUSH

BYLINE: BY PATRICK O'FLYNN POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 318 words


TONY Blair last night telephoned President George W Bush to convey Britain's
sympathy over the latest devastating blow to New York.

During a 25-minute telephone call, neither leader ruled out the chilling
possibility that a terrorist attack had caused the plane crash.

Mr Blair's official spokesman said: "The Prime Minister has just spoken to
President Bush in a 25-minute conversation, the main purpose of which was to
convey this country's condolences to the President and the people of New York
and America over the air crash."

The spokesman said the leaders had agreed it was too early to sure about the
cause. "We have kept an open mind throughout. At this stage nothing is ruled in
and nothing is ruled out. Experience suggests it is better to leave it to the
professionals on the ground before making an assessment as to the cause."

Mr Blair heard news of the crash at the end of a lunch at 10 Downing Street with
Indian Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.

"They were about to come down and talk to the press when they were told and the
shock around the table was palpable, " said a No 10 source.

Last night Mr Blair opened his speech to the Lord Mayor's Banquet in London -
traditionally his key foreign policy speech of the year - with an expression of
sympathy for New York.

"First let us offer our deep condolences and sympathy yet again to the people of
New York and to the families of the victims of the latest air tragedy, " he
said.

Mr Blair told his audience the Taliban regime in Afghanistan was "unravelling"
but was not yet beaten and pledged to continue until they were and until the Al
Qaeda terror network had been "hunted down".

Tackling criticism that he has neglected the home front during his involvement
in the war on terror, he said: "We have much to do at home.

But now, more than ever before, what we do abroad can affect our homeland."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              101 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 13, 2001

CITY & BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; CRASH TRIGGERS FALLS IN JITTERY MARKETS

BYLINE: BY PETER CUNLIFFE

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 410 words


AIRLINES and insurance companies were sent reeling as stock markets dived in the
wake of the latest New York airline disaster.

Fears of a new terrorist attack sent shivers through already nervous world
financial centres and triggered falls in the dollar and oil prices.

But speculation the American Airlines crash in Queens was a tragic accident
helped steady dealers' frayed nerves.

Britain's FTSE 100 index of leading companies fell 178 points in the aftermath
of the incident but recovered to close 98 points down at 5146.2 points.

On Wall Street, the Dow Jones Industrial Average fell 198 points in early
trading but later staged a comeback. The Frankfurt DAX 30 was down 2.2 per cent
and the Paris CAC 40 lost 3 per cent.

"At the moment it's premature to call it an act of terrorism and therefore the
market's reaction has been suitably restrained, " said Jeremy Batstone, head of
research at NatWest Stockbrokers.

"The World Trade Center was at the heart of the financial district and its
destruction disrupted the running of the global financial market so there was a
risk of systemic collapse.

There is no need for the same frantic reaction to this as there was last time."

Airlines, already struggling in the face of the worst downturn in traffic DEPUTY
CITY EDITOR since the Gulf War, fell sharply.

UK flag carrier British Airways dropped 1 bp to 161p, while Germany's Lufthansa
fell 4.2 per cent to e12.95 (GBP 7.96).

Shares in Britain's biggest airport operator BAA fell 28p to 564p as it warned
of serious disruption on services to New York. The shares have dropped from
nearly 660p at the start of September.

Tony Machacek, at broker Prudential Bache, said: "There's no indication that
it's a terrorist attack. But, if anything, it's going to put people off flying
more, just when we thought things were getting back to something like normal."

Oil prices, depressed by the global economic downturn, fell $ 1.13 to $ 20.25 a
barrel. Since the terrorist attacks in New York, oil prices have fallen 25 per
cent.

The crash is also a blow to the worldwide insurance industry, which is still
counting the cost of September 11, estimated at $ 40 billion (GBP 27.5 billion).

The Lloyd's of London insurance market confirmed it had some involvement in
cover for American Airlines but gave no details.

General insurers CGNU and Prudential, France's AXA, Swiss Re and Germany's
Allianz also dropped.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              102 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               November 13, 2001

Prices drop at the factory gates

BYLINE: Larry Elliott

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 392 words


Growing evidence of the deflationary pressures gripping Britain's
recession-beset manufacturing sector in the wake of September's terrorist
attacks emerged yesterday with the release of official data showing firms
cutting prices in response to falling demand.

Despite the lifeline thrown to industry by the dramatic fall in oil prices last
month, the cost of goods leaving factory gates were 0.6% lower in October than a
year earlier, the sharpest annual fall since records began in October 1958.

City analysts said that the first full set of producer prices data since
September 11 meant further falls in inflation were in the pipeline. They added
that the weakness of manufacturing output prices would eventually feed through
the supply chain into lower prices in shops, putting pressure on the Bank of
England to come up with further reductions in interest rates in order to hit the
government's 2.5% inflation target.

Economists also warned that manufacturing was likely to react to falling demand
and rising labour costs by cutting back on employment. Unemployment figures out
tomorrow will show whether September's attacks have already affected the jobs
market. Jonathan Loynes, economist with Capital Economics, said: "Although
falling costs are of some comfort to hard-hit manufacturers, the fragility of
demand means that they are unlikely to be able to use them to boost margins
significantly. In the current environment, survival is the name of the game."

Data from national statistics showed that industry's fuel and raw material costs
de clined by 2.6% last month as growing fears of a global recession pushed the
price of a barrel of crude oil below Dollars 20. The fourth monthly fall in fuel
and raw materials meant industry's input prices are 9% lower than a year ago.

However, economists said that falling commodity prices were being more than
offset by rising labour costs, which were harming productivity and putting an
intense squeeze on both domestic and export profit margins.

Manufacturers cut their output prices by 0.1% last month, the third month out of
the past four in which they have lowered the cost of their goods to protect
market share.

Excluding food, drink, tobacco and petroleum products, prices were unchanged for
the third successive month, and 0.1% lower than a year earlier.


LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               November 12, 2001

FURYATNEW BID TO JAIL 'TERRORISTS' WITH NO TRIAL

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 497 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett yesterday came under heavy criticism over new
plans to lock up suspected terrorists without trial.

Human rights groups and backbenchers reacted with fury after it emerged that Mr
Blunkett will today ask the House of Commons to approve his controversial plans.

He will declare Britain is in a state of national emergency to push through the
new powers. And he will ask Parliament to opt out of one area of the European
Convention on Human Rights - which prevents Governments detaining people without
trial.

Mr Blunkett will use the wartime measure to round up around 20 terrorist
suspects who are hiding in Britain.

He said: "I don't give a damn whether it is one, a dozen or 20. The important
thing is that they do not put our lives at risk nor do they organise, fund or
enable others to put lives at risk elsewhere.

"I don't want anyone to be under the misapprehension that some group of innocent
individuals who have just wandered into this country are somehow going to be
banged away for life, because it isn't the case."

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said he would fight any moves to scrap
the right to trial, calling it a "serious erosion of civil liberties".

Labour backbencher Mark Fisher warned against "a state of hysteria" following
the terrorist attacks on September 11. And John Wadham, director of civil rights
group Liberty, added: "This is a fundamental violation of the rule of law, our
rights and traditional British values."

Mr Blunkett said the move would be used only in limited circumstances where a
foreign national was suspected of involvement in international terrorism and
also posed a threat to Britain's national security.

Locking up suspects without trial was previously used by Britain against
Northern Ireland terror suspects and Germans during the Second World War.

The Home Secretary said he would strike a balance between cracking down on
terrorist activity and protecting people's human rights.

He said: "I am determined to protect this country from anyone who is prepared to
abuse our hospitality in order to plan or promote terrorism here or abroad.

Equally, I intend to protect human rights and ensure the right to a properly
constituted legal hearing and appeal for those suspected of engaging in
terrorism.

"The Special Immigration Appeals Commission is constituted under a High Court
judge with legal representation for both the prosecution and appellant.

Anyone suspected of terrorist activity who we would want to detain would have to
go through this process involving the Commission. The Appeal court will hear, on
points of law, any subsequent appeal.

Rights to return to the court will be available if the individual detained is
not transferred to a safe, third country."

A Downing Street source said: "We are absolutely determined to get the balance
between human rights, which are important, and society's right to live free from
terror."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              104 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 12, 2001, Monday

BLUNKETT WILL SEEK EMERGENCY POWERS TO DETAIN TERRORISTS

BYLINE: John Deane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett is to seek emergency powers to detain terrorist
suspects without trial, as part of the government's response to the September 11
terror attacks.

Mr Blunkett will lay an order before the House of Commons today seeking
Parliamentary approval to claim a derogation from article 5 of the European
Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right to liberty and prohibits
detention without trial.

Under article 15 of the convention, governments are allowed to derogate from
article 5 in times of war or other "public emergency".

Mr Blunkett will seek a derogation allowing detention without trial under what
the Home Office called "very limited circumstances".

That is, where a foreign national is suspected of involvement in international
terrorism and poses a threat to the UK's national security and there is no
immediate prospect of that individual being returned to their country of origin.

The definition would cover, for example, asylum seekers suspected of terrorist
involvement who cannot be removed to their homelands because they have a well
-founded fear that their lives would be in danger if they were returned.

Internment without trial has been used before, for example against Northern
Ireland terrorist suspects and German citizens during the World War II.

Mr Blunkett's move comes hard on the heels of United States vice president Dick
Cheney's acknowledgement that Britain's staunch support for the military
campaign against Afghanistan could prompt retaliatory strikes by al Qaida.

A Downing Street source said, "Britain is closed to terrorism."

"People will object to it but we are absolutely determined to get the balance
right between human rights, which are important and society's right to live free
from terror."

But the move prompted controversy immediately.

John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty said, "This is a
fundamental violation of the rule of law, our rights and British values."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: POWERS: David Blunkett

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              105 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               November 12, 2001

Terrorist suspects held without trial;
 Blunkett rushes emergency Bill through Commons

BYLINE: John Deane

SECTION: News :999 :Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 413 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett is to seek emergency powers to detain terrorist
suspects without trial, as part of the Government's response to the September 11
terror attacks.

Mr Blunkett will lay an order before the House of Commons today seeking
Parliamentary approval to claim a derogation from article 5 of the European
Convention on Human Rights, which guarantees the right to liberty and prohibits
detention without trial.

Under article 15 of the convention, governments are allowed to derogate from
article 5 in times of war or other "public emergency."

Mr Blunkett will seek a derogation allowing detention without trial under what
the Home Office called "very limited circumstances."

That is, where a foreign national is suspected of involvement in international
terrorism and poses a threat to the UK's national security, and there is no
immediate prospect of that individual being returned to their country of origin.
The definition would cover, for example, asylum seekers suspected of terrorist
involvement who cannot be removed to their homelands because they have a
well-founded fear that their lives would be in danger.

Internment without trial has been used before, for example against Northern
Ireland terrorist suspects, and German citizens during World War Two.

Mr Blunkett's move comes hard on the heels of United States vice president Dick
Cheney's acknowledgement that Britain's staunch support for the military
campaign against Afghanistan could prompt retaliatory strikes by al Qaieda.

A Downing Street source said:

"Britain is closed to terrorism, and we will take whatever action we can.

"People will object to it, but we are absolutely determined to get the balance
right between human rights, which are important, and society's right to live
free from terror."

But the move prompted controversy immediately.

John Wadham, director of the civil rights group Liberty, complained:

"This is a fundamental violation of the rule of law, our rights and traditional
British values."

The public emergency order is just one of a series of anti-terror measures which
the Government wants to rush through Parliament in response to September 11.

The bulk of the measures will be in a Bill to be published tomorrow. That Bill
will get a second reading just a week later and with the prospect of cross
-party support, the Government is hoping to get the measures on to the statute
book by the end of the year.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              106 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           November 11, 2001, Sunday

TERROR SUSPECTS TO BE INTERNED

BYLINE: Colin Brown And Jo Dillon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 514 words


The Home Secretary David Blunkett will this week declare a state of "public
emergency" in Britain to introduce internment without trial for suspected
terrorists in this country.

The Home Secretary will provoke a storm of protest from senior Labour MPs,
Conservatives and Liberals by announcing that Britain is derogating article five
from the European Court of Human Rights to allow the detentions to take place.
To do so, he will have to declare that Britain is under a heightened state of
the threat of terrorism.

However, MI5 has secretly warned MPs that the tough new anti-terrorist measures
to be unveiled by Mr Blunkett on Tuesday do not go far enough. Officers from MI5
met the Home Affairs Select Committee and told MPs they needed a new law
concerning conspiracy to commit a terrorist offence, so as to plug loopholes
that allow suspected terrorists to go free.

Their demands for tougher measures will set alarm bells ringing at Westminster,
where MPs are preparing to attack some of the anti-terrorism proposals for going
too far.

The Home Affairs Select Committee, which is rushing out a report on the new
terrorism Bill, is expected to register its concern. Its Labour chairman, Chris
Mullin, has told friends he has misgivings about indefinite detention without
trial.

The Tory shadow Home Secretary, Oliver Letwin, will warn it is not in the
national interest to detain suspected terrorists in British prisons.

A Tory spokesman said: "We don't think interning terrorist suspects in this
country is a very good idea. If we end up with prisons full of suspected
terrorists we are making ourselves a prime target. There would be a risk, either
from direct attempts being made to free terrorists from these prisons, or
attempts to take British subjects hostage and try to trade them."

Both the Liberal Democrats and the Tories are concerned at the speed at which
the Bill is expected to go through Parliament and are calling for the
legislation to be time-limited so that it would have to be renewed every year.

The Liberal Democrats are worried that some of the provisions may exclude some
people from the asylum process altogether. The Tories are unconvinced of the
need to make incitement to religious hatred a crime.

The committee meeting with MI5 officers was so secret that one member who missed
it did not know it had happened.

MI5 officers gave two examples of suspected terrorists who had been stopped but
not arrested as they had not broken the law. One man had pounds 180,000 in cash
at an airport, stuffed into his children's clothes. Another was carrying
arsenic. "They said the man with the arsenic might have been planning to poison
the water supply but had committed no offence so he was allowed to go," said one
committee member.

The Home Office confirmed there was no law that could have led to detention in
either case, although the Proceeds of Crime Bill allows the seizure of large
sums involving crime. The sale of arsenic is tightly controlled but its
possession is not an offence.

Muslim fears, page 14

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              107 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                           November 11, 2001, Sunday

WORLD MUST COME TO AID OF AMERICA, SAYS BUSH;
 BRITAIN TO INTERN TERROR SUSPECTS; 'I HAVE NUCLEAR WEAPONS' - BIN LADEN; US:
'ALLIANCE SHOULD NOT TAKE KABUL'

BYLINE: Colin Brown And Andrew Buncombe At The United Nations And Justin Huggler
In Dasht-e-qaleh, Afghanistan

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words


President George Bush used his first speech to the UN yesterday to demand
international support for his campaign against terrorism, and said all civilised
nations were potential targets for those who carried out the attacks on 11
September.

As he spoke, Afghanistan's Northern Alliance, which took the strategic city of
Mazar-i-Sharif on Friday, was pushing Taliban forces out of large areas in the
north of the country. Geoff Hoon, the Secretary of State for Defence, urged them
to sweep on to Kabul in spite of ministerial fears that a street battle for the
Taliban-held city could lead to a "bloodbath".

Mr Bush and Pakistan's President Pervez Musharraf said last night that Northern
Alliance troops should not try to take Kabul because Afghanistan must eventually
be ruled by a coalition of tribes.

"We will encourage our friends to head south," Mr Bush said, "but not into the
city of Kabul itself".

In Britain, a "public emergency" is to be declared by David Blunkett, the Home
Secretary, as a device to introduce internment without trial for suspected
terrorists. An order will be introduced within 48 hours declaring that the 11
September attacks are "threatening the life of the nation" to allow Britain to
opt out of Article 5 of the European Convention on Human Rights prohibiting
detention without trial. It does not mean Britain will be placed in a higher
state of alert and it will be opposed by civil rights campaigners.

Tony Blair marked Remembrance Day by comparing the fight against terrorism with
the war against Nazi Germany. "The momentum is obviously with the international
coalition," he said. But the Taliban's "guest", Osama bin Laden, claimed he had
nuclear and chemical weapons, and threatened to use them if the US employed such
weapons against him.

In an interview, Mr bin Laden conceded for the first time that his own death is
"inevitable". It was condemned by the Prime Minister's spokesman as clear
evidence that he masterminded the attacks on New York and Washington. Mr bin
Laden said the twin towers of the World Trade Centre were "legitimate targets".

In a move to stiffen international resolve, the UN assembly members will be
called on to sign a new declaration in support of the war on terrorism which is
due to be presented tomorrow. Mr Bush also sought to strengthen Arab support for
the coalition attacks by making his most emphatic statement in support of a
Palestine state.

Mr Bush will seek the support of Russia's President Vladimir Putin, at a summit
in Texas this week, for a reduction in the sanctions against Iraq, which have
been a source of unrest in the Middle East. The list of items to be discussed is
restricted but the US wants to end Saddam Hussein claims that sanctions are
causing innocent deaths.

"Every nation has a stake in this cause" Mr Bush told the General Assembly. "As
we meet, the terrorists are planning more murder, perhaps in my country or
perhaps in yours. Civilisation itself, the civilisation we share, is threatened.
History will judge or justify every nation in this hall.

"We are working towards the day when two states - Israel and Palestine - live
peacefully together within secure and recognised borders as called for by the
Security Council resolutions," he said.

It was not lost on Mr Bush that the delegates were meeting in a "hall devoted to
peace, in a city scarred by violence".

Reports, pages 2, 13-18

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              108 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           November 11, 2001, Sunday

WAR ON TERRORISM: N-PLANT IS IDEAL 'DIRTY BOMB'

BYLINE: Mike Merritt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 282 words


PONDS of radioactive waste at a nuclear plant are lying open to an attack which
could devastate Scotland, the Sunday Mail can reveal.

An estimated 2000 cubic metres of waste is held in open ponds at Sellafield
nuclear power station in Cumbria.

And yesterday one of Britain's leading nuclear scientists Dr John Large
admitted: "If terrorists hit those ponds it would be devastating."

He wants to expose what he claims are serious security flaws at UK nuclear
sites.

British Nuclear Fuels, which runs the stations, insists it is taking extra
security measures to prevent terror attacks.

But Dr Large believes terrorists like bin Laden could target the radioactive
ponds to create a huge, "dirty" bomb which could devastate Scotland, northern
England and Ireland.

American security services believe the most likely terror device would be a
standard lorry bomb - but packed with barrels of radioactive waste, which would
be scattered for miles.

Dr Large said: "The threat of turning Sellafield into a dirty bomb is real. We
really do not have any defence against aerial attack."

He identified six possible terrorist targets at the plant, including tanks with
huge amounts of highly-radioactive caesium 137.

After September 11, Britain imposed no-fly zones around nuclear plants.

Dr Large said other plants in the UK were also at risk. He said: "Scotland is in
a vulnerable position because it has nuclear power stations like Chapelcross,
Hunterston, Torness and Dounreay plus military installations such as Faslane,
Rosyth and Coulport."

A BNFL spokeswoman said: "In the light of the World Trade Centre attacks, BNFL
has been reviewing safety plans."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              109 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                           November 11, 2001, Sunday

HUGE GUARD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 115 words


MASSIVE security will surround the Queen and other leading figures at the
Cenotaph today.

Armed police on rooftops will watch over the Remembrance Day service for
Britain's war dead in one of the biggest security operations ever.

It follows fears of terrorist attacks connected with the Afghanistan war and the
Real IRA.

Victims of the New York atrocities were among those honoured by the Queen, Tony
Blair and his wife Cherie, and other members of the Royal Family last night.

New York police officer Frank Dwyer and fire chief Joe Callan were given a
standing ovation as they entered London's Royal Albert Hall at a Festival of
Remembrance.

THE BRAVE: Page 34

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              110 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                           November 11, 2001, Sunday

N-PLANT IS IDEAL 'DIRTY BOMB'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 352 words


PONDS of radioactive waste at a nuclear plant are lying open to an attack which
could devastate Scotland, the Sunday Mail can reveal.

An estimated 2000 cubic metres of waste is held in open ponds at Sellafield
nuclear power station in Cumbria.

And yesterday one of Britain's leading nuclear scientists Dr John Large
admitted: "If terrorists hit those ponds it would be devastating."

He revealed the existence of the ponds to expose what he claims are serious
security flaws at Britain's nuclear sites.

British Nuclear Fuels, which runs the stations, insists it is taking extra
security measures to prevent terror attacks in the wake of September 11.

But Dr Large believes Sellafield's radioactive ponds are a huge, ready made
"dirty" bomb which could cause devastating damage across Scotland, north England
and Ireland.

There are already fears that Osama bin Laden could try to create a so-called
"dirty bomb" - designed to cause massive radioactive fall-out.

American security services believe the most likely terror device would be a
standard lorry bomb - but packed with barrels of radioactive waste which would
be scattered for miles.

Dr Large said: "The threat of turning Sellafield into a dirty bomb is real and
we really do not have any defence against aerial attack."

He identified six possible targets for terrorists at the plant including tanks
holding huge amounts of highly-radioactive caesium 137 - which could easily be
hit by a hijacked plane.

After September 11 Britain imposed that no-fly zones around 11 nuclear plants.
Two RAF Tornados were scrambled after an alert over Sellafield which proved to
be a false alarm.

Dr Large said though Sellafield was the main terrorist threat, other plants in
the UK were also at risk.

He said: "Scotland is in a vulnerable position because it has nuclear power
stations like Chapel Cross, Hunterston and Torness as well Dounreay and military
installations such as Faslane, Rosyth and Coulport."

A BNFL spokeswoman said: "In the light of the World Trade Centre attacks, BNFL
has been reviewing safety plans."

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              111 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

BIN LADEN COULD TARGET BRITIAN WARNS CHENEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 368 words


OSAMA bin Laden could target Britain in revenge for Tony Blair's prominent role
in the war against international terrorism, United States Vice-President Dick
Cheney has acknowledged.

Interviewed by David Yelland, the editor of The Sun newspaper, Mr Cheney said
that the Saudi dissident, the prime suspect in the September 11 terror attacks
on the US, would have registered the military and diplomatic role being played
by Britain.

Asked whether he expected Britain to be targeted by bin Laden's al Qaida
network, Mr Cheney said: "It's certainly possible."

He added: "I wouldn't want to make a hard and fast prediction because I don't
know. But I assume bin Laden is well aware of the effort being made by Britain
alongside the United States and leaders of this international effort.

"Obviously the possibility exists that, at some point, he'll try and launch some
kind of attack on the UK."

Asked what form that attack might take, Mr Cheney said it was impossible to
predict.

Mr Cheney said: "Who knows? I couldn't predict. We were unable to predict what
happened on September 11 ...

"You know, with the Cold War you had adversaries. You could deter them from
aggression by how they valued their homeland. But here you're dealing with
somebody who doesn't have anything they value.

"Deterrents don't work. Negotiations don't work. The only way to deal with it is
to destroy them, the quicker the better."

Mr Cheney said Mr Blair and US President George Bush had forged a close
relationship during the crisis, and Mr Blair had proved himself a significant
figure on the world stage.

Mr Cheney also said he believed that, in recent days, the prolonged airstrikes
on the Taliban frontline had begun to prompt Taliban members to think about
severing ties with their leadership, or even defecting.

Speaking just as news was emerging of the Northern Alliance move on Mazar- e
-Sharif, Mr Cheney added: "Their (the Taliban's) major strongholds are back in
Kandahar, Kabul and to some extent Herat out to the west. But to lose Mazar-e
-Sharif would be a significant development, a significant defeat for them
because they worked hard to continually try and reinforce it."

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               November 10, 2001

Britain could be terror target says Cheney

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 182 words


NATIONAL: Osama bin Laden could target Britain in revenge for Tony Blair's
prominent role in the war against international terrorism, United States Vice
-President Dick Cheney has acknowledged.

Interviewed by David Yelland, the editor of the Sun newspaper, Mr Cheney said
that the Saudi dissident, the prime suspect in the September 11 terror attacks
on the US, would have registered the military and diplomatic role being played
by Britain.

Asked whether he expected Britain to be targeted by bin Laden's al Qaida
network, Mr Cheney replied: "It's certainly possible. I assume bin Laden is well
aware of the effort being made by Britain alongside the US and leaders of this
international effort."

Mr Cheney said Mr Blair and US President George Bush had forged a close
relationship during the crisis, and Mr Blair had proved himself a significant
figure on the world stage.

"I know the President relies very heavily on the Prime Minister in terms of
advice. And Mr Blair has really stepped out and been a major leader in the
international effort, " said Mr Cheney.

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              113 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: MISERY AS FIRM FOLDS

BYLINE: Brian Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 134 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHUT: Gatwick


HUNDREDS of passengers were stranded yesterday when Canada's second biggest
airline ceased operations.

Canada 3000, which flies to 95 countries, stopped selling tickets and grounded
flights after calling in receivers. It had lost pounds 480,000 a day following
the US terrorist attacks. The decision threatens the jobs of the 4,800 staff -
including 50 in Britain.

The collapse hit 200 holiday-makers at Manchester airport.

They had already checked in their luggage when their flight to Toronto was
cancelled. They were forced to go home or find other flights.

At Gatwick, 350 passengers expecting to fly to Vancouver were stranded.

Canadian holidaymaker Balvinder Manhas said: "We have no idea if we are covered
by insurance and I've already used up all my English change."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              114 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          November 10, 2001, Saturday

FOOD-CHAIN TERRORISM WARNING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 110 words


BRITAIN must guard against a terrorist attack by means of contaminated food, a
leading vet has warned.

David Tyson, vice-president of the British Veterinary Association, told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme that sabotaging the food chain was a potential means
of attack, "It becomes even more important now than it was before that we know
exactly the source of imports, and the documents that come with them are what
they say they are, and the stuff that is in the containers and refrigerated
lorries is what it says it is."

Mr Tyson said a tougher verification regime was needed, particularly for
products coming from the Far East and South America.

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              115 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: AIRPORT WORKERS PLEAD FOR HELP

BYLINE: Steve Swingler

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 178 words


WORKERS from Birmingham International Airport were among a trade union
delegation that was due to lobby Parliament today calling for special support
for Britain's crisis-hit aviation industry.

Many of the Birmingham workers going to London expressed deep fears about their
jobs following the economic turmoil created by the September 11 terrorist
attacks.

Ian Magill, a Transport and General Workers Union shop steward at the airport,
said: 'I'm extremely worried about the prospect of losing my job. Our union's
general secretary, Bill Morris, has said special circumstances require special
measures and he is absolutely right.'

Mr Magill said he wanted Tory MP Caroline Spelman, whose Meriden constituency
includes the airport, to know how strongly he and his colleagues felt on the
issue of help for the aviation industry.

Financial help for the industry from Government is severely hampered by an EU
decision not to bail out struggling airlines.

The ruling resulted in Belgium's national carrier Sabena declaring bankruptcy
yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              116 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 08, 2001, Thursday

Steep fall in number of visitors to Britain

BYLINE: By Nicole Martin

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 213 words

THE impact on tourism from the terrorist attacks in America was highlighted
yesterday by Government figures showing a steep decline in the number of
visitors to Britain.

The number of tourists from North America dropped by 17 per cent in September to
330,000 in comparison with the same time last year, according to the report by
the Office of National Statistics.

With the ailing tourist industry still reeling from the damage caused by foot
and mouth disease, the British Tourist Authority said urgent action was needed
to overturn Britain's reputation as the "leper of Europe".

Spending by foreigners in Britain dropped by 16 per cent to pounds 1 billion in
September, compared with the same month year.

Western Europeans were more willing than Americans to travel abroad. Almost 1.2
million of these tourists visited Britain in September, a drop of only six per
cent.

The combined effect of the foot and mouth epidemic, the strong pound, bad
weather and the terrorist attacks was a record "tourism deficit" - the
difference between the amount Britons spend abroad and the sum foreigners spend
in Britain - of pounds 13.7 billion during the 12 months up to September this
year, compared with pounds 11 billion last year.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              117 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 8, 2001

Tourism blow;
War on Terror

SECTION: Pg. 21

LENGTH: 203 words


AROUND 250,000 people abandoned plans to visit Britain in September after the
U.S. terror attacks, it emerged yesterday.

Fears about flying coupled with the expectation of further outrages kept
holidaymakers and business travellers away.

The crisis coming hard on the heels of the foot-and-mouth epidemic is expected
to cost the UK tourism industry almost GBP 3billion this year, a fall in
'earnings' of about 20 per cent.

Visitor numbers were down from around 2.23million in September 2000 to fewer
than 2million this year.

Tourists from the lucrative U.S. market fell by 17 per cent, while the figure
from the rest of world was 18 per cent down. The total of European visitors fell
by 6 per cent.

Yesterday, the British Tourism Authority said the gloomy figures were in line
with its predictions.

Chief executive Jeff Hamblin said: 'They come as no surprise. The loss of
250,000 overseas visitors in one month is tough for an industry that was
starting to recover from foot-and-mouth. We need to return to our core values to
win new visitors.'

The Queen and the Coldstream Guards are to be the icons of a GBP 5million global
marketing campaign to be launched after Christmas.


LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              118 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 8, 2001

PREMIER DENIES IGNORING BRITAIN AS HE HEADS TO U.S.; BLAIR FLIES OFF THE HANDLE,
THEN FLIES OFF

BYLINE: BY PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words


TONY Blair was last night battling to fend off accusations of neglecting public
services as Downing Street was thrown on to the back foot by the Daily Express.

As Mr Blair flew to Washington on Concorde for another round of talks with
President Bush, No 10 went into overdrive to pledge he would not neglect the
home front.

At Prime Minister's Questions, Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith took the fight to
the Premier exclusively on domestic issues - grilling him on the Railtrack
debacle and the state of the National Health Service.

Rattled by our front page story which accused the PM of acting as America's
Foreign Secretary rather than Britain's Prime Minister in recent weeks, Mr
Blair's official spokesman told journalists:

"The Prime Minister has actually only been out of the country for nine of the
last 57 days.

"Yes, he has been abroad quite a lot, but equally those trips have been highly
intensive. He has kept his focus very firmly on the domestic agenda."

Downing Street argued the distinction between the domestic and international
agenda was a false one in regard to the September 11 atrocity, which had cost
more than 100 British lives and threatened UK economic stability.

"This country lost more citizens in New York than in any other terrorist attack.
That is why the war on terrorism is as much a part of the Government's domestic
agenda as anything else, " said Mr Blair's spokesman.

"A Government has a duty to defend its citizens from attack, defend its economy
from from instability and defend its citizens from the menace of drugs."

While no further trips abroad to shore up the war on terror are yet in the PM's
diary, Downing Street sources last night confirmed that Mr Blair was still
determined to embark on a major tour of Africa early in the New Year.

In the Commons, Mr Duncan Smith attempted to harness the public mood by
challenging Mr Blair over whether he still had confidence in embattled Transport
Secretary Stephen Byers.

But his main assault on the Premier came on the state of the NHS. Mr Duncan
Smith accused the Government of putting dogma before patients.

He said patients were entitled to ask what extra cash had been spent on.

He said the Government's own figures showed that the number of patients being
treated for routine operations was at a standstill and that the British Medical
Association had said Labour had got "no chance" of meeting its six-month
in-patient waiting target.

"Given the evidence provided by your own department's figures, aren't members of
the public entitled to ask, "Where has all the money gone?'

"When it comes to reforming our health service, the reality is that you are long
on words but short on delivery. That's because you and your party are wedded to
dogma and put that before the needs of patients.

"Now, as a result, the crisis in the NHS is for life, not just for Christmas, "
said Mr Duncan Smith.

Mr Blair replied by reeling off statistics about the number of extra doctors and
nurses under Labour and the extra operations being carried out.

He told the Tory leader: "Of course there are still fundamental problems in many
parts of the health service but the additional money that has gone in has
actually yielded those benefits."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              119 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                November 8, 2001

Biological weapons regulation 'too lax'.

BYLINE: Claire Lomax (author email claire.lomax@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 333 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley


A Bradford lecturer has unravelled the secrets of biological warfare with a book
calling for more stringent rules on development of the weapons.

Dr Simon Whitby says regulation of biological weapons is too lax and will relay
his fears at a United Nations (UN) conference in Geneva on November 17.

His book, Biological Warfare Against Crops, investigates state- run programmes
on developing the weapons but he does not believe attacks against sources of
food would be a tactic employed by terrorists.

Dr Whitby, based at the University of Bradford, said: "There has been a lot of
speculation about the origin of the pathogen used in the anthrax attacks.

"But what we have been looking at since the attacks of September 11 is mass
casualty terrorism - I wouldn't think terrorists aiming to attack people would
also attack food crops."

The book outlines how countries, including the US, former Soviet Union and
Britain, have conducted tests into using biological weapons to attack crops and
says that at the height of the Cold War, America claimed it had enough
stockpiles to send its Communist enemy into famine.

Dr Whitby, with the university's peace studies department, is an adviser to the
UN's Ad Hoc Group which is overseeing moves to strengthen the protocol
surrounding biological weapons.

He is also webmaster for the University's project on strengthening the protocol
and has published numerous articles on biological warfare and its control.

He said: "At the moment we have a weak international prohibition against
developing biological weapons which we have been trying to strengthen for the
last seven years but was hampered when, earlier this year, the US walked out of
talks.

"They claimed the protocol was not strong enough after having spent the last
seven years trying to get it watered down.

"We need a mechanism which checks research into biological weapons and prevents
states from breaking the agreement, as the former Soviet Union did in the
1970s."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              120 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                November 8, 2001

Bulls five are squad 'tips'.

BYLINE: Bill Marshall (author email bill.marshall@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: Sport

LENGTH: 513 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley


Chris Caisley was expecting Great Britain coach David Waite to name five
Bradford Bulls players in his squad of 17 today for Sunday's first Guinness Test
at the McAlpine Stadium.

The Bulls chairman feels that Paul Anderson, Stuart Fielden, Leon Pryce, Jamie
Peacock and Mike Forshaw will be selected.

However, he reckons that their fellow Super League Grand Final winners Paul
Deacon and Michael Withers will miss out.

Caisley said: "If I was selecting the squad, I would name all seven Bulls
players. But, having looked at the way David Waite played the match against
France and the changes he made, I feel he will leave out both Deacon and
Withers.

"He had Deacon playing at stand-off with Paul Sculthorpe behind him, so I don't
think he will be handing Deacon the No 7 shirt.

"But to my mind, Deacon has the best kicking game of anyone in the Great Britain
squad of 26, and Withers just speaks for himself."

Added Caisley: "I think Waite will name Mike Forshaw at hooker.

"He would acquit himself very well there, and might even prove the surprise
packet.

"I don't know where Waite will play Leon, but in Kris Radlinksi, Andy Farrell,
Paul Sculthorpe and Stuart Fielden Great Britain have some key men.

"I think Radlinski will play at full back, and Gary Connolly and Keith Senior in
the centres."

Looking ahead to the series itself, Caisley said: "Australia could send out two
or three sides of world-class ability at any one time, whereas we could send a
good side out.

"It is disappointing that Great Britain aren't going to be at full strength, but
our players have had the biggest time together in pre-series history, especially
with the club matches against the Aussies being cancelled.

"Also the Australians only arrived on Tuesday and have come from a warm climate
to typical British weather.

"And the arenas are probably smaller than some of those they are used to back
home.

"Another key thing, especially in the early stages of the first Test, is going
to be Britain's defence.

"If they can hold out - and hopefully the Bulls' Brian Noble (Great Britain's
assistant coach) will have had some influence here - and the crowd can get
behind them, then anything is possible."

Bradford Bulls' chief executive Abi Ekoku today expressed his sadness that the
Super League Grand Final winners could not face the Australian tourists.

They were due to meet at Valley Parade on Sunday, October 28, but although the
tour has gone ahead in the wake of the terrorist attacks, the club matches have
all bitten the dust.

Ekoku said: "Unlike some people, I don't think there is much difference between
the game at top level in Australia and Great Britain.

"And, especially with the way we ended the season, the Bulls would have had a
genuine chance of beating Australia were we at full strength.

"And the match would also have given a strong indicator of how the Test series
would have gone, coming as it did just days before the first Test.

"Of course, if we had won it would have given the Great Britain side a massive
boost."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              121 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           November 8, 2001, Thursday

SLUMP IN AMERICAN VISITORS TO UK;
 TOURISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 307 words


THE impact of the US terrorist attacks on the UK economy was highlighted
yesterday with new figures showing a dramatic fall in the number of Americans
visiting Britain.

There was a 17pc drop in North American tourists to the UK in September compared
with the same time last year, the Office of National Statistics said.

These tourists, which include North Americans and Canadians, represent a fifth
of all the money spent by tourists in the UK. Up to September there had been an
8pc drop in these tourists.

It is a decline which could deepen in the wake of the US terrorist attacks and
the war on terrorism causing further alarm to the struggling UK tourism
industry.

In September there were 330,000 North American visitors in comparison with
398,000 the previous year.

Up to September the number of North American visitors had slowly climbed to
their seasonal average despite the foot-and-mouth outbreak.

Meanwhile, people visiting Britain dropped by 5pc to 5.7 million in the three
months up to September compared with the previous quarter.

The number of overseas visitors to the UK dropped by 200,000 to 25.2 million in
the last year. However spending by these tourists jumped by 2.5pc from 1999 to
pounds 12.8bn.

This was triggered by fewer holidays being taken to the UK, particularly trips
lasting between 14 and 27 nights. Tourists were mainly travelling on business or
to visit friends or relatives.

North Americans were the biggest overall spenders, forking out pounds 2.8bn.

In comparison, pounds 900,000 was spent by Germans who were the next biggest
spenders.

However Middle Eastern tourists spent the most on an individual trip - on
average they stayed for 16 nights and spent pounds 140 a day.

Kuwaitis spent pounds 50m on nearly 22,000 independent holiday trips to the UK
in 2000.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              122 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 8, 2001

TERROR FEAR AS POLICE SWOOP, Seaside town is shocked by terror raid;
  'Burnham is the last place you would expect anything like this'

BYLINE: Megan Lloyd Davies

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 470 words


A MAN was arrested at a West seaside town yesterday in connection with the
murder of a top Ulster lawyer.

The swoop at Burnham-on-Sea came as Britain went on red alert against terrorism
following a car bomb attack in Birmingham at the weekend. Politicians fear
dissident Northern Irish extremists could pose a similar threat to British
cities as al Qaeda - the group behind the September 11 atrocities in America.
And they are calling on the Government to suppress the rising tide of
paramilitary activity.

The warnings came on the day new figures were released to show that more than
300 terrorist shootings and bombing incidents had taken place in Northern
Ireland in the past three months.

The Burnham arrest was made by officers investigating the death of solicitor
Rosemary Nelson.

Mrs Nelson was murdered in March 1999 when a bomb planted by loyalist terrorists
exploded beneath her car, parked outside her home in Lurgan, County Armagh, and
just yards from her eight-yearold daughter's school.

Renegade loyalist group, the Red Hand Defenders, claimed responsibility for the
killing.

Mrs Nelson's death caused huge controversy in Northern Ireland with claim and
counterclaim about the possible involvement of the Royal Ulster Constabulary in
alleged threats against the mother-of-three prior to her murder.

A spokeswoman for Norfolk police, whose deputy chief constable Colin Port was
drafted in to head the investigation into the murder, said: "Officers
investigating the murder of Rosemary Nelson have arrested a 29-year-old man.

"The man is being questioned about alleged terrorist offences and is currently
being held at a police station in England."

People in the quiet Somerset resort said they were shocked to hear that a
suspected terrorist had been arrested.

"This is such a quiet town and the last place you would expect anything like
this, " said one resident. "It really does make you wonder if anywhere is truly
free from the threat of terrorism these days."

Mrs Nelson, aged 40, was a committed nationalist who gained a reputation for
representing clients charged with IRA offences.

But her campaign against what she saw as human rights injustices gained her wide
respect within the legal profession.

Hostility against her was focused on a string of high profile cases.

In addition to acting for the family of Robert Hamill, a 25year-old kicked to
death in Portadown by a 30-strong Loyalist crowd, she also represented the
family of Sam Marshall as they campaigned for an inquest after the republican
was killed by a gunman after leaving a secret meeting at an RUC barracks.

The ill-feeling against Mrs Nelson was further inflamed after she became the
legal representative for the residents of Garvaghy Road in the annual showdown
at Drumcree.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              123 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 8, 2001

TERROR FEAR AS POLICE SWOOP, Seaside town is shocked by terror raid;
  'Burnham is the last place you would expect anything like this'

BYLINE: Megan Lloyd Davies

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 470 words


A MAN was arrested at a West seaside town yesterday in connection with the
murder of a top Ulster lawyer.

The swoop at Burnham-on-Sea came as Britain went on red alert against terrorism
following a car bomb attack in Birmingham at the weekend. Politicians fear
dissident Northern Irish extremists could pose a similar threat to British
cities as al Qaeda - the group behind the September 11 atrocities in America.
And they are calling on the Government to suppress the rising tide of
paramilitary activity.

The warnings came on the day new figures were released to show that more than
300 terrorist shootings and bombing incidents had taken place in Northern
Ireland in the past three months.

The Burnham arrest was made by officers investigating the death of solicitor
Rosemary Nelson.

Mrs Nelson was murdered in March 1999 when a bomb planted by loyalist terrorists
exploded beneath her car, parked outside her home in Lurgan, County Armagh, and
just yards from her eight-yearold daughter's school.

Renegade loyalist group, the Red Hand Defenders, claimed responsibility for the
killing.

Mrs Nelson's death caused huge controversy in Northern Ireland with claim and
counterclaim about the possible involvement of the Royal Ulster Constabulary in
alleged threats against the mother-of-three prior to her murder.

A spokeswoman for Norfolk police, whose deputy chief constable Colin Port was
drafted in to head the investigation into the murder, said: "Officers
investigating the murder of Rosemary Nelson have arrested a 29-year-old man.

"The man is being questioned about alleged terrorist offences and is currently
being held at a police station in England."

People in the quiet Somerset resort said they were shocked to hear that a
suspected terrorist had been arrested.

"This is such a quiet town and the last place you would expect anything like
this, " said one resident. "It really does make you wonder if anywhere is truly
free from the threat of terrorism these days."

Mrs Nelson, aged 40, was a committed nationalist who gained a reputation for
representing clients charged with IRA offences.

But her campaign against what she saw as human rights injustices gained her wide
respect within the legal profession.

Hostility against her was focused on a string of high profile cases.

In addition to acting for the family of Robert Hamill, a 25year-old kicked to
death in Portadown by a 30-strong Loyalist crowd, she also represented the
family of Sam Marshall as they campaigned for an inquest after the republican
was killed by a gunman after leaving a secret meeting at an RUC barracks.

The ill-feeling against Mrs Nelson was further inflamed after she became the
legal representative for the residents of Garvaghy Road in the annual showdown
at Drumcree.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              124 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          November 7, 2001, Wednesday

QUEEN PRAISES ROLE OF BRITISH MUSLIMS;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

BYLINE: Peter Archer STATE VISIT: The queen with King Abdullah of Jordan in
London

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 276 words


THE Queen has backed Britain's Muslims against extremists intent on stirring up
hatred, fear and prejudice.

In her first public comment on the war against terrorism, the Queen told
Jordan's King Abdullah, a key player in the Middle East crisis, that extremism
must not be allowed to succeed.

Last night, at a Windsor Castle state banquet for the visiting King, she said:
"My country cherishes its tradition of tolerance and mutual respect, which
permits people of different faiths and cultures to live and work together.

"I would like to take this opportunity of Your Majesty's visit to underline my
appreciation of the contribution made by the Islamic community in Britain to the
life of this country.

"Following the tragic events of September 11, all of us, whatever our religion
or background, have an added responsibility to ensure that those who are intent
on stirring up hatred, fear and prejudice in this country do not succeed."

It was a speech of rare directness by a constitutional monarch, emphasising the
gravity of the world crisis.

The Queen told King Abdullah: "The recent terrorist attacks on innocent people
in America have shocked us all. Your reaction has, as we expected, been
steadfast.

"Your role in framing the international response to these terrible events has
been invaluable. Your Majesty's help in persuading others that this is not a
conflict between Islam and the West, but rather between decent people of all
faiths and terrorism, has been greatly appreciated here."

She hoped for a "comprehensive and just peace" in the Middle East and "deeply
regretted" the loss of life of the past year.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 7, 2001

QUEEN'S WAR ON RACISTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 142 words


THE Queen took a stand to safeguard British Moslems last night in her first
public comment on the war against terrorism.

She told Jordan's King Abdullah, who is in Britain on a state visit, that
extremists must not be allowed to victimise British Moslems in the wake of the
September 11 terror attacks on the US.

At a Windsor Castle state banquet she said:

"My country cherishes its tradition of tolerance and mutual respect, which
permits people of different faiths and cultures to live and work together."

She added: "Following the tragic events of September 11, all of us, whatever our
religion or background, have an added responsibility to ensure that those who
are intent on stirring up hatred, fear and prejudice in this country do not
succeed."

The Queen also thanked Jordan for its support for the coalition forces.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              126 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 7, 2001

AIRLINE LOSES GBP 2M A DAY AS PASSENGERS STAY AWAY; BA PROFITS NOSEDIVE

BYLINE: BY DENNIS RICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 412 words


BRITISH Airways' profits nosedived by 98 per cent to just GBP 5million in the
three months to October.

The dramatic fall includes three weeks of major disruption after the terrorist
attacks in the US.

However, it also shows how much the airline was suffering prior to September 11
- stung by the impact of the US economic slowdown and the effect of
foot-and-mouth on the number of Americans visiting Britain.

BA's chief executive, Rod Eddington, yesterday insisted the flagship carrier
would not go bust and claimed it had GBP 3.4billion in "liquid assets". That
includes GBP 1.1billion in cash and an GBP 800million credit facility, but the
other GBP 1.5billion in assets would involve the airline having to sell its
headquarters at Heathrow.

The airline's staff have already had their Christmas bonuses cut and seen 7,200
of their colleagues put in line for redundancy.

And losses of GBP 2million a day may force further drastic action.

BA's stockbroker, Merrill Lynch, is anticipating the carrier posting losses of
GBP 775million for the year to next March. But despite the gloomy figures, Mr
Eddington was confident the airline would pull through.

"We will survive the industry crisis, " he said. "We have already taken
sufficient action to control costs and conserve cash."

The Transport and General Workers' Union said it would lobby the Government
tomorrow for support for the aviation industry, including providing help to BA.
The union will also ask ministers to continue to underwrite insurance premiums
for the industry and to give compensation for the extra security costs incurred
since the September 11 attacks.

One of the UK's biggest scheduled airlines, British Midland, is scrapping its
flights out of Stansted with the loss of 30 jobs.

The company also shares aircraft with Lufthansa on routes to Germany and both
companies are scrapping the flights from the end of November, also caused by a
fall in business since the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Pilots have told Britain's two biggest airlines that their new security measures
are "ill-considered, illconceived and potentially dangerous".

British Airways and Virgin plan to reinforce and "deadlock" cabin doors as a
safeguard against hijackers, but a spokesman for pilots' union BALPA said doors
which the crew could not open might be lethal. "These proposals ultimately
amount to nothing. The airlines just want to get people back flying, " he said

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              127 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 07, 2001

CND Cymru leader hails upsurge;
 Activists present anti-war petition

BYLINE: by ROGER BAGLEY

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 355 words


NEW CND Cymru chairwoman Jill Evans MEP welcomed the huge upsurge in campaigning
across Wales against the Afghan war yesterday.

After her election to the leading position, she declared:

"Violent retaliation by the US and Britain will only serve to recruit more
terrorists and bring more misery to the Afghan people."

Peace activists will lobby the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff today in support of a
"Stop the war" petition to Prime Minister Tony Blair, which has gathered
thousands of signatures in the last few days.

Ms Evans, who is international affairs spokeswoman for Plaid Cymru, has
resolutely opposed the Afghan war.

She has a proud record as a peace campaigner, supporting the Greenham Common
women's peace camp and opposed the 1991 Gulf war.

CND Cymru is sponsoring the petition, which activists hope to present to Welsh
Secretary Paul Murphy.

The petition states: "The killing of civilians is a crime against humanity. We
unreservedly condemn all terrorist attacks, whether carried out by individuals,
organisations or nations".

The petition urges the government not to take part in military retaliation and
calls on the US to seek justice through international law.

Caerphilly Labour councillor Ray Davies, who is chairman of South Wales
Coalition to Stop the War, said that thousands of people had eagerly signed the
petition at peace events.

He added: "Peace actions are just blossoming all the time.

"We are making absolutely sure that Tony Blair hears the voice of the people of
Wales loud and clear - stop the war, stop the killing."

Mr Davies said that local Stop the War coalitions had recently been set up in
the Rhondda, Pontypridd, Bridgend, Newport and Abergavenny.

CND Cymru revealed that 20 coaches had been booked so far to bring people from
Wales to the major anti-war demonstration in London on Sunday November 18.

"It's like the '80s again, " said one CND worker, reporting seven coaches booked
from Cardiff, with other coaches leaving from Aberdare, Abergavenny,
Aberystwyth, Bridgend, Gwynedd, Newport, Pontypridd, Swansea, Wrexham and Ynys
Mon.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

GRAPHIC: AGAINST RETALIATION: Jill Evans

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              128 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 07, 2001

Unions urge aviation crisis aid;

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 278 words


AVIATION unions demanded government support for Britain's airlines yesterday
after a serious dip in British Airways profits, writes Our Industrial Desk .

BA pre-tax profits were GBP 45 million for the six months to September 30,
compared to GBP 150 million during the same period last year.

Second-quarter turnover also fell, by 12 per cent to GBP 2.25 billion.

The firm, which had already been hurt by the US economic downturn and the
effects of the foot-andmouth crisis on tourism, saw passenger numbers fall even
further after the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Aviation union AEEU general secretary Sir Ken Jackson said: "British Airways
figures show the urgent need for action to support British airlines to help them
through a global crisis that is not of their own making. The government must
grasp the nettle."

Fellow union T&G is staging a lobby of Parliament tomorrow to press the case for
state intervention.

T&G leader Bill Morris warned that, without government help, thousands of jobs
would go.

Mr Morris said: "The huge scale of job losses affecting airlines, airports and
the travel industry are now being felt in manufacturing industry.

"We cannot afford to win the political and military battles and lose the
economic and manufacturing war, " Mr Morris added.

BA has announced 7,000 job cuts over recent months, but chief executive Rod
Eddington insisted:

"We will survive the industry crisis. We have already taken sufficient actions
to control costs and conserve cash."

BA claimed that its net debt of around GBP 6.5 billion was "manageable" and that
there were no immediate plans to sell any assets.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              129 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 6, 2001

Prices fall

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 73 words


BRITAIN: House prices fell last month as consumer confidence was hit by the US
terrorist attacks, Britain's biggest mortgage lender said today.

Halifax reported a 0.5 per cent drop in property prices during October, after
saying price increases ground to a halt in September.

The group said the fall was a response to the slowdown in economic growth,
deteriorating employment prospects and the knock to consumer confidence.

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              130 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

MOSLEM PACT IS REJECTED BY TORIES

BYLINE: Andrew Woodhead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 289 words


THE Tories last night refused to sign a pledge committing them to religious
tolerance of Moslems.

Shadow Home Secretary Oliver Letwin attended the Westminster launch of the
pledge and delivered a message of support from leader Iain Duncan Smith.

The declaration - part of Islamic Awareness Week - is designed to fight racial
tensions after the September 11 atrocities.

A Conservative spokes-man denied their decision came in response to the race
rows which dogged their election campaign after ex-leader William Hague signed a
Commission for Racial Equality compact not to play the race card.

He said: "Iain wanted to go slightly wider than the terms of the pledge.

"He believes it is better for us to express our views in our own terms, not sign
up to other people's messages."

The pledge was written by the Islamic Society of Britain and signed by Deputy
Prime Minister John Prescott and Lib-Dem home affairs spokesman Simon Hughes.

Duncan Smith said: "British Muslims and other faiths contribute greatly to the
cultural, social and economic life of our country.

"We will always be intolerant of those who are intolerant of others."

PM Tony Blair sent a message expressing his determination that Britain's
"multi-cultural multi-faith" society would not be undermined by US terror
attacks.

It added: "We cannot and should not allow anyone to equate terrorist action with
the peaceful, tolerant religion of Islam."

Yusuf Bhailok, of the Moslem Council of Britain, said there had been a "very
worrying" upsurge in violence against Moslems in the UK since the US attacks.

But he added: "Do we want the memorial to those people who died in the USA to be
the loss of innocent Afghan lives?"

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              131 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           November 6, 2001, Tuesday

Straw denies rift over Blair's role

BYLINE: Richard Beeston and Philip Webster

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 777 words


JACK STRAW, the Foreign Secretary, defended Tony Blair's intense diplomatic
activity yesterday and denied that Downing Street had taken over the Foreign
Office's traditional role in conducting British foreign policy.

Speaking in advance of his trip to the United Nations General Assembly in New
York, Mr Straw insisted that morale was high among British diplomats and that
the country's stature around the world had risen since the terrorist attacks on
September 11.

"There is a recognition that if there is an international crisis on this scale
the head of the government will be leading the national effort, and he had sure
better be," Mr Straw told The Times. "That is what the public demands."

He said that in informal chats with officials at the Foreign Office, diplomats
told him repeatedly that the current British-led effort to bolster the coalition
against terror was precisely why they had joined the service.

There has been criticism of Downing Street for building its own diplomatic
network, including the appointment of several special prime ministerial envoys.
For instance, Lord Powell of Bayswater, Margaret Thatcher's former adviser,
helped to arrange Mr Blair's controversial visit to Syria last week when
President Assad criticised the military campaign against Afghanistan and
denounced Israel as a terrorist state.

Mr Straw, defending the trip, said that he had urged Mr Blair to go and that the
mission had been worth the risk. He insisted that Britain had a "single foreign
policy".

He added that this co-ordinated diplomacy contrasted with the Thatcher era, when
the Foreign Office was not trusted by Downing Street. "When Charles Powell was
adviser (to Baroness Thatcher) then you had two foreign policies being pursued,"
he said.

Mr Straw said that Mr Blair's intense diplomatic efforts -he leaves on his fifth
mission abroad this week to Washington -had boosted Britain's stature on the
world stage. "Every time a British diplomat moves around the world, he or she is
complimented on what the Prime Minister and the United Kingdom have done. It has
been hugely beneficial to the efforts of British diplomacy," he said.

In particular, he said that among European Union partners there had been a
"psychological shift" where Britain was now expected to take the lead in any
discussion about the fight against terror.

Mr Straw, who yesterday attacked Osama bin Laden's claim that he is fighting a
jihad, or holy war, described the main suspect for the September 11 attacks on
America as suffering from "psychosis".

"He is obviously psychotic and paranoid as well. I am picking my words with care
here because whenever you use the language of mental illness you get letters
from people," Mr Straw said. "But these words exist to describe people like
this. Because a key characteristic of people who are psychotic and paranoid is
the sense of complete detachment from the suffering of others. They are absorbed
and obsessed with their own rightness and of what they are saying."

Britain's new role on the world stage could be tested later this week when Mr
Straw travels to New York to address the UN on Friday and where he hopes to
press for fresh initiatives on Iraq and the Middle East peace process.

The UN General Assembly, the busiest annual fixture in global diplomacy, was
supposed to have been held in late September but was postponed because of the
terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre.

Britain, working closely with America, will use the occasion to push through a
new draft resolution on Iraq aimed at curtailing the activities of Saddam
Hussein and alleviating the suffering of his people. The resolution would make
it harder for Baghdad to smuggle out oil and then use the proceeds for rearming.
But it would also make it easier for non-military products to be imported.

The resolution is similar to the text of a previous draft blocked by Russia in
June. It is hoped that the new mood in the Kremlin means that the Russians will
now co-operate.

The British move is seen as a way of tackling the potentially explosive issue of
Iraq. Mr Straw insisted that Britain had no evidence of Iraqi involvement in the
terrorist attacks on America. But some hawks in the Pentagon have accused
Baghdad of involvement and want to retaliate. Moderate Arab states have said
that they will pull out of the coalition against terror if Iraq is attacked.

Mr Straw is also likely to press for fresh diplomatic moves on the Middle East.
"The situation is grim," he said. The region is waiting for a public commitment
by the US on the launch of a new drive, possibly at the UN.


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              132 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

BRUM CAR BOMB: BLAIR IN BRUM CALL FOR WAR ON TERROR

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 308 words


PREMIER Tony Blair was today due to use a major speech in Birmingham to press
the case for an all out war on terrorism - less than 48 hours after the city was
rocked by a car bomb.

Mr Blair had planned to concentrate on the terror threat posed by Middle East
-based extremists in his address to the Confederation of British Industry's
national conference, but rewrote parts of the speech in the light of Saturday's
Real IRA attack.

A huge security operation was under way in the city today for Mr Blair's visit.

Delegates faced delays of nearly 30 minutes in getting into the city's
International Convention Centre because of the stringent security checks and
searches being carried out.

Business leaders and Government Ministers attending the conference were earlier
assured that security was 'completely fine' despite the car bomb explosion.

The Premier was set to urge people not to be shaken out of their normal lives by
the upsurge in terrorism and acknowledged the New York attacks on September 11
had already had a bad impact on the global economy.

While Mr Blair was expected to stress Britain's economic 'fundamentals' remained
strong, but warn business leaders there were still 'weaknesses that need to be
addressed, particularly in terms of skills and productivity.'

CBI officials today said they had no idea if Saturday's bomb was timed to
coincide with the conference

CBI director general Digby Jones said there was no better place to hold a
conference than in Birmingham because of the way security was dealt with in the
city.

'Security for this building is completely fine and everyone is as safe as
houses,' he promised.

Mr Jones said it was important that the conference sent out a strong message
that industry was going about its business as usual in the wake of the US
terrorist attacks.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              133 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                November 5, 2001

T.A. TO GUARD TARGETS;
 WAR ON TERROR, Call for increased military presence

BYLINE: STEVE GRANT

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 329 words


BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers could be deployed to defend nuclear plants
and other key targets from terrorist attack, it has emerged.

The Territorial Army might be used in a similar way to the US National Guard to
provide armed patrols at installations like the Oldbury and Hinkley Point power
stations, considered at risk of attack.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a wider role for the TA was one of the
options being considered as part of the review of the Armed Forces ordered by
Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in the light of the September 11 attacks.

Last week, a small plane hired by the Evening Post 's sister paper the Western
Daily Press was able to fly over the top of Hinkley Point nuclear power station
and the huge Ministry of Defence establishment at Abbey Wood unchallenged.

Mr Hoon said: "I certainly think there may emerge from this review a greater
role for a military presence within the UK."

The threat of terrorist attack against nuclear installations was also underlined
by a warning last week from the International Atomic Energy Agency calling for
tighter security worldwide.

It also warned of the need to ensure that terrorists did not get hold of
radioactive materials used in hospitals and laboratories.

It was also revealed yesterday that Tornado fighters were scrambled over
Sellafield last weekend after a security alert.

British Energy, the private firm that generates most of Britain's nuclear power,
immediately stepped up pleas it has been making for more protection after the
September 11 attacks.

Ministers are now reportedly reluctantly considering imposing the requested no
-fly zones around all of Britain's nuclear power stations.

The Royal Mail has also revealed that it is providing its staff with rubber
gloves to protect them from a possible anthrax attack.

West spokesman Adrian Booth said:

"We are going to provide them to staff on request."

s. grant@bepp. co. uk

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              134 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

PART-TIME SOLDIERS CALLED IN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 117 words


BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers could be deployed to defend nuclear plants
and other key targets from terrorist attack, it has emerged.

The Territorial Army might be used in a similar way to the US National Guard to
provide armed patrols at installations considered at risk of attack, the
Independent on Sunday reported.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a wider role for the TA was one of the
options being considered as part of the review of the Armed Forces ordered by
Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in the light of the September 11 attacks.

In his speech to the Labour Party conference last month, he said that Britain's
military capabilities may need to be "rebalanced".

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              135 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 5, 2001

BROWN AT ODDS WITH BLAIR OVER THE EURO

BYLINE: BY ALISON LITTLE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 239 words


CHANCELLOR Gordon Brown delivered a powerful counterblast to Tony Blair last
night on the single currency.

In a controversial speech to businessmen, he bluntly warned that joining the
euro "in the wrong way without a rigorous assessment" would not be in the
national interest.

Mr Brown, speaking on the eve of the CBI conference in Birmingham, declared
there must be "no short-cut or fudge" in assessing whether Britain should sign
up.

His intervention comes only a month after Mr Blair told the Labour Party
conference they should have the courage to hold a referendum in this Parliament
if the conditions were right.

In contrast to the call for courage, Mr Brown said the Government's approach
should be "cautious and considered" and described its position as one of
"proeuro realism".

Mr Brown's comments will cause renewed speculation about a rift with Mr Blair
who will today urge British business to keep its nerve amid the economic fallout
from the terror attacks on America.

He will tell the CBI conference that Britain's economic fundamentals are strong.

Mr Brown told the the business leaders last night he was "cautiously optimistic"
for Britain's economic future. But he failed to rule out tax increases to fund
his plans.

Shadow Chancellor Michael Howard commented: "No one should be deceived by
Brown's tough talk. Labour have already pledged themselves to taking Britain
into the euro."

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              136 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       November 5, 2001, Monday Edition 1

Nuclear plant plane ban

BYLINE: By The Journal

SECTION: UK AND WORLD NEWS, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 439 words







A no-fly zone has been imposed over a North-East power station as security is
stepped up at nuclear plants in the wake of the New York terror attacks.

The two-mile exclusion zone at Hartlepool power station was implemented at the
weekend in response to requests from its owners.

No aircraft civil or military will be allowed to fly below 2,000ft, mirroring
bans already in place at Sellafield in Cumbria and Chapelcross, Dumfries and
Galloway. All three plants are operating on a heightened state of alert and
non-essential visitors to the Hartlepool plant have been banned.

Ministers are said to be considering deploying Britain's 40,000 part-time
Territorial Army soldiers to patrol key civilian and military installations such
as nuclear and chemical plants.

Geoff Hoon, Secretary of State for Defence, is reported to have said that a
review of Britain's defences would lead to more soldiers being deployed at home
to deal with the threat of terrorism. Bob Fenton, a spokesman for Hartlepool
power station owner British Energy, said last night: "We have been speaking to
the Department for Trade and Industry and Civil Aviation Authority in the light
of recent events to make representations to them and they have imposed the ban.

"The ban extends to all aircraft, both civil and military.

"In the past, we have always had opportunities for visitors to tour the plant
and we have suspended those for the time being for obvious reasons.

"We have stopped any visitors that are not necessary, which has freed up
security to be more pro-active." He said no armed guards were in place at the
power station and neither was the UK Atomic Energy's own police force, which is
licensed to carry guns.

The station was opened 20 years ago and has a staff of 350.

It can generate enough electricity to supply a city the size of Newcastle.

A spokesman for British Nuclear Fuels, which own Sellafield, said: "We have a
heightened state of alert at the plant but we don't discuss specific security
issues." He said that no-fly zones had existed over Sellafield and Chapelcross
for years.

A DTI spokesman said: "The system of flying restrictions over nuclear
installations was extended to all nuclear power plants from Saturday morning.

"This isn't a security measure, but a safety measure to help prevent air
accidents which might have hazardous consequences for these installations."

Authorities in the United States have been discussing introducing the National
Guard and anti-aircraft missiles at nuclear plants.

Similar security is also planned in France.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              137 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               Leicester Mercury

                                November 5, 2001

City Muslims say war survey is flawed

BYLINE: by TWalsh

SECTION: News:Other:War, Pg.3

LENGTH: 277 words


Tim Walsh

Political reporter

Muslims in Leicester today rejected claims that many followers of Islam
supported Osama bin Laden.

The Sunday Times talked to 1,170 Muslims in cities throughout Britain -
including Leicester - to get their views on the September 11 atrocities and
subsequent war in Afghanistan.

Around 40 per cent of those interviewed believed bin Laden "has cause to wage
war against the US" and 11 per cent thought there was ''some justification'' for
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

Speaking before the Leicester launch of Islam Awareness Week, local Muslim
representatives said the survey was flawed and did not represent the views of
most members of the Islamic faith.

Manzoor Moghal, chairman of the Federation of Muslim Organisations in Leicester,
said: "The survey would have been based on representations from young Muslims
outside mosques. This does not represent the wider Muslim community. The survey
is bound to be somewhat lop-sided."

He said the majority of Muslims were against the terrorist attacks - but also
wanted an end to the war in Afghanistan.

Dilwar Hussain, of the Islamic Society of Britain Leicester branch, said: "I
don't think the survey is representative. If you look back at September 11, I
think everybody condemned the attacks."

Islam Awareness Week was launched at the City Rooms, in Leicester, this morning.

Organiser Rabiha Hannan said: "Muslims are united in the statement that they are
completely against the attacks. This poll does not seem to add up."

Other cities in the survey included London, Birmingham, Bradford and Manchester.

timwalsh@leicestermercury.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                        Copyright 2001 Leicester Mercury

                              138 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                November 5, 2001

TV stars line up against Taliban

BYLINE: WAYNE VESEY and TOM KELLY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 377 words


Security clamp on Emmys

A PATRIOTIC theme dominated Hollywood's Emmy awards ceremony as U.S stars lined
up behind their country and against the Taliban.

The mood of the three-hour show - America's TV Oscars - was set from the start
with the singing of America the Beautiful and a soothing address from
ex-newscaster Walter Cronkite.  It ended with Barbra Streisand singing You'll
Never Walk Alone, backed by a chorus against a candlelit backdrop.  A tribute
was also read out to Frasier creator David Angell, who was on one of the planes
which smashed into the World Trade Center on September 11.

Host Ellen DeGeneres, who at one point took the stage dressed in black with a
red, white and blue ribbon, lightened the mood when she said: What would bug the
Taliban more than seeing a gay woman in a suit surrounded by Jews?'' The stars
at the Shubert Theatre watched film of Tony Blair pledging to back the US, and
DeGeneres - who also appeared in a sensational swan-style dress - thanked
Britain and other countries who had supported America since September 11.

The ceremony had twice been delayed - by the terrorist attacks and by the start
of the bombing of Afghanistan. High security surrounded the event. Stars had to
walk through metal detectors before being allowed in. The security plan devised
by the FBI also involved closing the airspace above the theatre due to fears of
a repeat of the September 11 attacks.  The West Wing - about the White House -
won the best drama award, defeating its main rival The Sopranos. It took a total
of four awards. The Sopranos fared well with James Gandolfini and Edie Falco
winning the top acting awards. It also won the drama writing category. British
actor and director Kenneth Branagh's role in Conspiracy won him an Emmy for lead
actor in a mini-series or movie.

Cadfael star Derek Jacobi also took an award for his guest role in American
sitcom Frasier.  And Scottish actor Brian Cox won an Emmy for supporting actor
in the mini-series or movie category for his role in Nuremberg.

The event's organiser, Bryce Zabel, said the show seemed insignificant''
following the September 11 atrocities. But he added: To have given up would have
been a defeat.''


LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: DeGeneres: A variety of costumes and a Taliban joke; Streisand: Star of
the finale; Winner: Britain's Brian Cox

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              139 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

AMERICA - OUR NUMBER ONE ALLY;
 VIEWPOINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 152 words


IN reply to W Ashton (Viewpoints, October 30), he says he is puzzled by the
uproar of the September 11 attacks.

Well, W Ashton, approximately 6,000 innocent people were slaughtered in a
terrorist attack on a democratically elected country of the world, also killing
600 British people.

As for the two atom bombs dropped on the civilian population during World War
II, does he not recall that we were at war?

These were acts of war - not terrorism.

I would welcome Americans to these shores ahead of people from any other
country. They truly are friends to Britain.

Finally W Ashton, America's involvement in World War II brought about a swifter
conclusion to the conflict saving many British lives.

If it was not for America, we would have been in a right state.

If Britain was able to become a state of America, I'd put my cross in favour.

William Roberts Rumney, Cardif f

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              140 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                November 5, 2001

Britain will escape a recession claims report

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.24

LENGTH: 258 words


BRITAIN will avoid plunging into recession next year despite the worsening
global economic climate, a report out yesterday claims. Interest rate cuts by
the Bank of England and government and consumer spending will help the economy
keep the "threat of hard times at arm's length".

The report, by chartered accountants BDO Stoy Hayward, shows that despite the
terrorist attacks on the US, output in the UK is holding steady.

And it adds that while airlines and travel firms will be hit, growth in the UK
economy in the first quarter next year will still be 1.7 per cent on an
annualised basis.

Technology and telecoms groups, sent reeling by the collapse of the tech boom
earlier this year, may even start to stage a recovery.

BDO partner Peter Hemington said: "While the economic dangers are very real, in
this instance the UK is in a relatively good position.

"Demand is better underpinned than that in other world economies, interest rate
cuts are bolstering consumer expenditure and government spending is rising
rapidly."

The report comes just days after the National Institute of Economic and Social
Research said growth in Britain this year would outstrip other G7 countries.

This is despite the very real concern that the US, Japan and Germany could all
fall into recession in the coming months.

It will also send a reassuring message to the market after Chancellor Gordon
Brown warned of testing times ahead.

BDO's poll of polls for October does show that confidence is at its lowest since
the economic slowdown of 1998.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              141 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                November 5, 2001

Part-timers to defend UK nuclear installations

SECTION: BUSINESS: CONSTRUCTION, Pg.22

LENGTH: 197 words


BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers could be deployed to defend nuclear plants
and other key targets from terrorist attack, it emerged last night.

The Territorial Army could be used like the US National Guard to provide armed
patrols at installations considered at risk of attack, the Independent on Sunday
reported.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a wider role for the TA was one of the
options being considered as part of the review of the Armed Forces ordered by
Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in the light of the September 11 attacks.

In his speech to the Labour Party conference last month, he said that Britain's
military capabilities may need to be "rebalanced" to take account of the new
threat of so-called "asymmetric" warfare.

He told the Independent on Sunday: "I certainly think there may emerge from this
review a greater role for a military presence within the UK. I would not want to
use regular forces for that purpose. I can see the TA may be involved in that."

The threat of terrorist attack against nuclear installations was underlined by a
warning last week from the International Atomic Energy Agency calling for
tighter security worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              142 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            November 5, 2001, Monday

TA MAY HAVE ROLE AT NUCLEAR PLANTS

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 221 words


BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers could be deployed to defend nuclear plants
and other key targets from terrorist attack, it emerged yesterday.

The Territorial Army might be used in a similar way to the US National Guard to
provide armed patrols at installations considered at risk of attack, the
Independent on Sunday reported.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed a wider role for the TA was one of the options
being considered as part of the review of the Armed Forces ordered by Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon in the light of the September 11 attacks.

In his speech to the Labour Party conference last month, he said Britain's
military capabilities may need to be "rebalanced" to take account of the new
threat of so-called "asymmetric" warfare.

He told the Independent on Sunday, "I certainly think there may emerge from this
review a greater role for a military presence within the UK.

"I would not want to use regular forces for that purpose. I can see the TA may
be involved in that.

"I recognise as a result of September 11 we are in a very different situation
and we have to take appropriate measures."

The threat of terrorist attack against nuclear installations was underlined by a
warning last week from the International Atomic Energy Agency calling for
tighter security worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              143 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 5, 2001

TA may defend nuclear plants

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 153 words


BRITAIN'S 40,000 part-time soldiers could be deployed to defend nuclear plants
and other key targets from terrorist attack, it emerged yesterday.

The Territorial Army might be used in a similar way to the U.S. National Guard
to provide armed patrols at installations considered at risk of attack, it has
been reported.

The Ministry of Defence confirmed that a wider role for the TA was one of the
options being considered as part of the review of the Armed Forces ordered by
Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon in the light of the September 11 attacks.

Yesterday he said: "I certainly think there may emerge from this review a
greater role for a military presence within the UK. I would not want to use
regular forces for that purpose. I can see the TA may be involved in that.

"I recognise as a result of September 11 we are in a very different situation
and we have to take appropriate measures."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              144 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            November 4, 2001, Sunday

'NATIONAL GUARD' TO DEFEND UK NUCLEAR SITES;
 FIGHTERS SCRAMBLED OVER SELLAFIELD NUCLEAR PLANTS WANT MORE PROTECTION ARMED
SECURITY ROLE FOR TERRITORIALS

BYLINE: Colin Brown And Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words


Britain's 40,000-strong force of part-time soldiers will be given a new role in
protecting key targets from terrorist attack by Osama bin Laden's al-Qa'ida
network, under plans being considered by ministers.

The Territorial Army would be given the task of deploying armed patrols like
those of the US National Guard at military bases and key civilian installations
such as chemical and nuclear plants.

Tornado fighters were scrambled over Sellafield last weekend after a security
alert, suggesting a possible aerial attack on the nuclear complex. The planes -
each carrying four Skyflash radar-guided missiles and four Sidewinder infrared
homing missiles - raced to the Cumbrian plant last Saturday evening. The alert
was a false alarm, but the response to it illustrated that the danger of a
terrorist attack on a nuclear installation is being taken seriously.

British Energy, the private firm that generates most of Britain's nuclear power,
immediately stepped up pleas it has been making for more protection after the 11
September attacks. Industry insiders complained that the Department of Trade and
Industry were ignoring them.

Geoff Hoon, the Secretary of State for Defence, yesterday confirmed that a
Government review of Britain's defences would lead to more armed soldiers being
deployed at home to deal with the threat of terrorism. "I certainly think there
may emerge from this review a greater role for a military presence within the
UK," he told The Independent on Sunday. "I would not want to use regular forces
for that purpose. I can see the TA may be involved in that.

"I recognise as a result of 11 September we are in a very different situation
and we have to take appropriate measures."

His comments came as ministers reluctantly considered imposing the requested no
-fly zones around all of Britain's nuclear power stations after being repeatedly
warned by the industry of the consequences of a plane being crashed into one of
the plants.

France last week installed surface-to-air missiles around its equivalent to
Sellafield, at Cap La Hague, near the Channel Islands. Mr Hoon did not rule out
adopting a similar approach around British nuclear sites but would not give
details.

Even an air exclusion zone would not stop a terrorist attack. It would take just
14 seconds for an airliner entering a two-mile zone around Sellafield to hit the
plant, far too short a time to deploy counter-measures. The jets scrambled last
weekend took over 10 minutes to get to the complex.

As concern grows in the US and UK about warnings that another al-Qa'ida attack
could take place in the next few days, the Government is considering following
the US by appointing a minister to coordinate homeland defence, a role currently
taken by David Blunkett, the Home Secretary.

Meanwhile, UK post office staff were issued with rubber gloves to protect them
from a possible anthrax attack.

Police forces providing extra security cover are now complaining that they are
being severely overstretched.

Whitehall sources said yesterday that under the new defence proposals, which
would relieve this strain, TA soldiers would be used for armed security at key
points that could be vulnerable to terrorist attack, but armed police would
still be used for routine airport protection. Air defence batteries within the
TA could be used to protect nuclear plants.

A ministerial source said last night: "We'd like to see the TA used like the
National Guard in the US. They are trained and they are available."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              145 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

Air traffic control will be 'Railtrack of the skies'

BYLINE: Edmeades Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 229 words


AIR traffic control in Britain will become the "Railtrack of the skies" without
urgent Government funding, union leaders warned today.  National Air Traffic
Services (Nats) was part-privatised three months ago but is already in serious
financial difficulty, according to controllers' union Prospect.

The situation has been worsened by the September 11 terrorist attacks, which
have led to a downturn in revenue for the aviation industry.

The economic slowdown has already led to a delay in developing a new air traffic
control centre at Prestwick in Scotland.

Iain Findlay, aviation officer for Prospect, was due to tell the controllers'
annual conference in Stockport today Nats was in serious trouble unless the
Government came up with extra funding.

"Controllers cannot stand by and see a world class service deteriorate," he
said.

"Investment in vital infrastructure, such as the new air traffic control centre
in Scotland, must be maintained according to the original timescale to ensure
capacity and safety are not affected.

"The Government took the money that has put Nats under financial pressure,
exacerbated by the recent tragic events. The long-term infrastructure must not
be allowed to crumble.

"As a major stakeholder and shareholder in Nats, the Government must look again
at Nats' financing to prevent a 'Railtrack of the skies'."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              146 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

Black peer joins Islam pledge row BY sentinel reporter

BYLINE: Edmeades Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY; PA; NEWS; Pg. 4-NATIONAL AND INTERNATIONAL NEW

LENGTH: 334 words


BLACK Conservative peer Lord Taylor of Warwick has denounced the Tory party for
refusing to sign a religious tolerance pledge as part of Islamic Awareness Week.
The peer accused the party of having a "pigheaded" attitude after leaders
declined to sign the pledge, designed to combat racial tensions in the wake of
the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

He said: "By adopting this pigheaded attitude and refusing to sign the pledge
against religious intolerance, even though they agree with it, the Tories seem
determined to show themselves even further out of touch with modern Britain.

"They should have signed the pledge, as well as making their own statement
condemning intolerance. By taking this stubborn approach, they have once again
scored a political own goal." Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin attended the
Westminster launch of the pledge and delivered a statement of support for its
aims from Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith.

But Conservative spokesmen said the party was not willing to sign up to
declarations drafted by other organisations. They denied that the decision came
in response to the race rows which dogged their June 7 election campaign after
former leader William Hague signed a Commission for Racial Equality compact not
to play the race card.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott and Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman
Simon Hughes both signed the pledge - to which Tony Blair had already put his
name - at yesterday's launch. The pledge, drawn up by the Islamic Society of
Britain, commits signatories to working towards better community relations
between faith groups and to avoiding using language of an inflammatory or
discriminatory nature.

Those signing it recognise that British Moslems joined people of all other
faiths in reacting with horror to September 11.

In his statement of support, Mr Duncan Smith said: " I am particularly pleased
to have the chance to state my full support for the aims of Islamic Awareness
Week."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 The Sentinel (Stoke)

                              147 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

AGENCY:PA:NEWS

BYLINE: by Edmeades Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.4

LENGTH: 342 words


Black peer joins Islam pledge row

BY sentinel reporter

BLACK Conservative peer Lord Taylor of Warwick has denounced the Tory party for
refusing to sign a religious tolerance pledge as part of Islamic Awareness Week.

The peer accused the party of having a "pigheaded" attitude after leaders
declined to sign the pledge, designed to combat racial tensions in the wake of
the September 11 terrorist attacks in the US.

He said: "By adopting this pigheaded attitude and refusing to sign the pledge
against religious intolerance, even though they agree with it, the Tories seem
determined to show themselves even further out of touch with modern Britain.

"They should have signed the pledge, as well as making their own statement
condemning intolerance. By taking this stubborn approach, they have once again
scored a political own goal."

Shadow home secretary Oliver Letwin attended the Westminster launch of the
pledge and delivered a statement of support for its aims from Tory leader Iain
Duncan Smith.

But Conservative spokesmen said the party was not willing to sign up to
declarations drafted by other organisations. They denied that the decision came
in response to the race rows which dogged their June 7 election campaign after
former leader William Hague signed a Commission for Racial Equality compact not
to play the race card.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott and Liberal Democrat Home Affairs spokesman
Simon Hughes both signed the pledge - to which Tony Blair had already put his
name - at yesterdays launch. The pledge, drawn up by the Islamic Society of
Britain, commits signatories to working towards better community relations
between faith groups and to avoiding using language of an inflammatory or
discriminatory nature.

Those signing it recognise that British Moslems joined people of all other
faiths in reacting with horror to September 11.

In his statement of support, Mr Duncan Smith said: " I am particularly pleased
to have the chance to state my full support for the aims of Islamic Awareness
Week."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              148 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                November 4, 2001

AGENCY:PA:NEWS

BYLINE: by Edmeades Phil (Sentinel)

SECTION: AGENCY:PA:NEWS, Pg.4

LENGTH: 235 words


Air traffic control will be Railtrack of the skies

AIR traffic control in Britain will become the "Railtrack of the skies" without
urgent Government funding, union leaders warned today.

National Air Traffic Services (Nats) was part-privatised three months ago but is
already in serious financial difficulty, according to controllers union
Prospect.

The situation has been worsened by the September 11 terrorist attacks, which
have led to a downturn in revenue for the aviation industry.

The economic slowdown has already led to a delay in developing a new air traffic
control centre at Prestwick in Scotland.

Iain Findlay, aviation officer for Prospect, was due to tell the controllers
annual conference in Stockport today Nats was in serious trouble unless the
Government came up with extra funding.

"Controllers cannot stand by and see a world class service deteriorate," he
said.

"Investment in vital infrastructure, such as the new air traffic control centre
in Scotland, must be maintained according to the original timescale to ensure
capacity and safety are not affected.

"The Government took the money that has put Nats under financial pressure,
exacerbated by the recent tragic events. The long-term infrastructure must not
be allowed to crumble.

"As a major stakeholder and shareholder in Nats, the Government must look again
at Nats financing to prevent a Railtrack of the skies."

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              149 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                November 4, 2001

HEATHROW CHECKS ARE STEPPED UP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 156 words


SECURITY at Britain's air and sea ports has been stepped up amid fears that
terrorists are planning a fresh attack.

Heathrow is back on amber alert this weekend with more armed police on patrol.
Security staff numbers have also increased so that more bag searches can be
carried out.

An immigration officer working at Terminal Four said: "After September 11 we
were immediately put on amber alert, which is a high security level, but we came
off that about three weeks ago.

"Then, this week we were put back on amber, which indicates they are expecting
something bad to happen."

A Eurotunnel spokesman said: "Straight after the terror attacks we were put on
level five alert, the highest level. This week we are back up to level four."

Security at nuclear plants has also been stepped up since it was revealed that
the September 11 hijackers planned to fly a plane into nuclear power stations in
Philadelphia.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              150 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                November 4, 2001

EXPERTS TELL CHANCELLOR HIS TESTS FOR JOINING SINGLE CURRENCY WON'T BE MET IN
TIME; SORRY GORDON, BUT THE EURO IS STILL YEARS AWAY

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley-Brewer POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 657 words


BRITAIN cannot join the euro in the lifetime of this Labour government,
campaigners against the single currency will claim today.

The criteria of Chancellor Gordon Brown's five economic tests for joining will
not be met during this parliament, according to a new report backed by former
Treasury chiefs and Bank of England officials.

The report, The Economic Case Against the Euro, gives a detailed assessment of
the Treasury's tests and concludes that Britain will not be in a position to
pass them in time for June 2003, the date which is understood to be most
favoured by the Government for a referendum on entry.

The report is backed by many Whitehall economic experts, including four former
chief economic advisers to the Treasury, two former permanent secretaries and
two senior advisers at the Bank of England.

Government ministers have given contradictory signals on the single currency
since the election in June, but the Chancellor has refused to be swayed from his
line that membership will depend on success in passing the five economic tests
he has set.

The Prime Minister has promised that an assessment would be undertaken within
two years of the general election, while the Chancellor was reported in August
to have ordered Treasury staff to begin assessing whether there is a "clear and
unambiguous" case for entry, covering issues such as convergence between
economies, flexibility, investment levels, growth and jobs.

But the No Campaign, formed by Business for Sterling and New Europe, insists
that the five goals cannot be achieved by June 2003.

Instead, they propose five alternative tests, shifting the focus from whether
Britain is able to join EMU, to whether monetary union is worth joining,
claiming that the euro is not, and is unlikely to be, a successful single
currency.

Tony Blair had been expected to give a stronger indication of the Government's
intention to join the euro in his speech to the TUC on September 11, but the
terror attacks on New York and Washington meant that he never delivered his
speech.

Events in America also scuppered plans for multimillion-pound information
campaigns that were due to kick off on 14 September, ahead of the launch of the
euro notes and coins next January.

Sir Alan Budd, chief economic adviser to the Treasury from 1991-97, described
the No Campaign report as "required reading for the Treasury when it assesses
the Government's five economic tests".

And Sir Douglas Wass, Treasury Permanent Secretary for nine years to 1983, said
it "presents a formidable challenge to the pro-euro lobby to refute its
arguments".

Meanwhile, his predecessor, Lord Croham, added: "The campaign has produced a
very convincing argument about why a rush to join the euro could be economically
damaging to the UK."

Janet Bush, co-director of the non-party political campaign, said: "We need to
change our mind-set and stop thinking, 'Are we good enough for EMU?' and start
thinking, 'Is EMU good enough for us to join?'

"British jobs and living standards will be far better served if we stay in the
EU but keep the pound."

Her colleague, Dominic Cummings, added: "The euro has never looked a bigger
gamble for the Government. The economics are strongly against joining and the
tests are not going to be met."

The report comes in the wake of Made in Britain, a document published in
September by Britain in Europe, the pro-euro group, which claimed that joining
the euro is "patriotic" and that many people opposed to the euro use language
that borders on racism.

A recent ICM poll revealed that public support for joining the euro has fallen
since the events of September 11.

Fifty seven per cent now believe that the threat of international terrorism
makes it more important that Britain keeps control of its own affairs, while
only 25 per cent believe the terror attacks made further integration with Europe
more important.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              151 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                November 4, 2001

Tying links between our nations.

BYLINE: Jim Jack (author email jim.jack@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 216 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley


Ties to mark the special bond between the United States and Britain are being
designed and made in Keighley.

And Prime Minister Tony Blair, US President George W Bush and New York Mayor
Rudolph Giuliani have each accepted one.

Mr Blair has thanked the firm for his tie, which bears the slogan "United
States, United Kingdom, United we Stand."

The neckties feature the crossed Stars and Stripes and Union Flag and each one
sold will help raise funds for the Twin Towers Appeal.

They are produced by Keighley firm Ezra T Lee and have already raised more than
GBP 1,200 for the appeal.

Company chairman Tony Lee has strong links with New York.

"I used to work in New York and have two friends who worked in the World Trade
Centre, but fortunately neither was working on September 11," he said.

He had been to the city just before the terrorist attack and will soon open an
office in Manhattan's Seventh Avenue as a sales, stock holding and distribution
centre.

Mr Lee said he was so moved by the attack he was spurred to create the special
tie which was being produced at the firm's mill in Parkwood Street, Keighley.

The ties are on sale at GBP 10.50p, with GBP 7 going to the Twin Towers Appeal.

Anyone wishing to buy one should contact the company on 01535 219265

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              152 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 03, 2001, Saturday

BA landing fees could increase by pounds 30m a year

BYLINE: By Alistair Osborne City Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 391 words

BRITISH Airways, already reeling from the US terrorist attacks, yesterday
discovered its landing fees could rise by pounds 30m a year under plans by the
Civil Aviation Authority to change the charging regime for Britain's major
airports.

The CAA unveiled its preliminary conclusions for its five-year review of airport
charges at Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted - owned by BAA - and the
local-authority controlled Manchester.

They are due to take effect from April 2003.

Doug Andrew, the CAA's director of economic regulation, proposed ending the
current regime where BAA's retail income subsidises low landing charges, despite
the congestion at Heathrow and Gatwick.

Under the current regime, Heathrow's charges, at pounds 5.23 per passenger, are
only three-quarters of those at Frankfurt and Paris Charles de Gaulle, even
though it has 64m passengers a year, which is well above its design capacity of
fewer than 60m passengers.

Mr Andrew said his review "aimed to address the problems of congestion and
service quality".

Under the plans, fees per passenger could rise by 15p at Heathrow, pounds 1.60
at Gatwick, pounds 1.15 at Stansted and pounds 1.15 at Manchester. BAA could
also earn pounds 20 per passenger more at Heathrow for each one above 70m a
year, which depended on approval for Terminal 5.

Mr Andrew said: "We think the current policy doesn't give them a strong enough
incentive to invest."

He added that retail income did not need to be regulated: "We don't regulate
income on Oxford Street so I don't see why we should at Heathrow."

BAA shares rose 5 to 570p, with analysts Credit Suisse First Boston upping its
price target to 635p.

Despite analysts claiming the review could add pounds 30m- pounds 40m to BA's
landing fees, its shares also rose, up 5 3/4 to 146 3/4 p.

BAA cautioned that the CAA's proposals lacked details while it still had to
consider the impact of September 11.

A spokesman said the review "does take account of the need for airport charges
which encourage investment".

BA yesterday imposed a pounds 2.50 surcharge per passenger on all one-way
flights to recoup additional costs since September 11.

It warned: "Given the current conditions, like other carriers we are not in a
position to absorb any increase in charges so passengers will have to pay."
[PS]City: [ES]

City Diary:

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              153 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

SICK 999 HOAXER IS JAILED FOR BLITZ THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 168 words


A PHONE hoaxer who told police Britain was to be "bombarded", hours after the US
terrorist attacks, was jailed for three years yesterday.

Tunisian Mossadek Jouini, 38, claimed he was a member of the Palestinian Hamas
organisation.

He said it was responsible for the US attacks and thatLondon's NatWest Tower and
Canary Wharf were to be targeted if Tony Blair publicly backed America.

The 999 call was traced to a public phone box in the Strand, central London.

Officers reached it so quickly Jouini still had the phone in his hand.

He denied making the hoax call and asked the two constables who arrested him:
"Have you not got anything better to do?"

Yesterday, at London's Southwark Crown Court, Jouini, of Upper Holloway, north
London, admitted charges of making a hoax telephone call and possessing a five
-inch knife.

He showed no emotion as Judge Geoffrey Rivlin told him it was "about as serious
a hoax as one can imagine" and one that called for a deterrent sentence.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              154 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2001

LEADER COLUMN; IS BRITAIN SAFE FROM TERROR?

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 160 words


IT WOULD be reassuring to think that, after all the horrors of September 11,
Britain's civil defence was able to prevent a terrorist attack but what scant
evidence there is suggests we are not as safe as we would like to think. A
horrifying degree of complacency exists at British airports. More frightening
still, how was it possible for a group of journalists to fly a plane over a
nuclear power plant without being stopped? It is a disgrace that such security
breaches are occurring.

It is equally worrying that most of us are being kept in the dark about threats
to our safety. Californians may be terrified by the announcement that there is a
"credible threat" to their bridges but at least their government sees fit to
inform them of the risk.

Governments will always have information that they cannot share but the current
paternalism is excessive. As scary as it might be, if our lives are threatened,
we surely have a right to know.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              155 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 3, 2001

LEADER COLUMN; OUR RIGHT TO KNOW THE WORST

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 163 words


IT WOULD be reassuring to think that, after all the horrors of September 11,
Britain's civil defence was able to prevent a terrorist attack. But what scant
evidence there is suggests we are not as safe as we would like to think. A
horrifying degree of complacency still exists at British airports. More
frightening still, how was it possible for a group of journalists to fly a plane
over a nuclear power plant without being stopped? It is a disgrace that such
security breaches are still occurring.

It is equally worrying that most of us are being kept in the dark about threats
to our safety. Californians may be terrified by the announcement that there is a
"credible threat" to their bridges. But at least their government sees fit to
inform them of the risk.

Governments will always have some information that they cannot share but the
current paternalism is excessive. As scary as it might be, if our lives are
threatened, we surely have a right to know.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              156 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 3, 2001

Privatised Nats loses pounds 50m

BYLINE: Keith Harper

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 295 words


Britain's national air traffic control service has lost about pounds 50m since
June, when it was partly privatised and was predicted to make a profit of pounds
60m.

The loss is mainly due to the impact of the terrorist attacks in New York, which
has led to a drop in the number of aircraft taking off and landing in Britain -
and in the numbers of flights passing over the UK, for which the company
receives payment.

Some airlines have switched to smaller planes, reflecting the decline in
passenger numbers. This reduces the fees they pay to the service, in which the
government retains a 49% stake.

The company's troubled entry into the private sector will be highlighted this
weekend, when the air traffic controllers' union, IPMF, attends an industry
conference in Stockport, Cheshire.

Delegates are expected to call for a government initiative to relieve pressure
on the seven airlines operating the consortium. BA and Virgin Atlantic are the
largest players, and some smaller airlines are considering whether to pull out,
given the cost of the enterprise and their increasing financial concerns.

The new company, which employs more than 5,000 people, says it will have to lose
2,000 in the next 12 months, mainly corporate and head office staff.

Transport secretary Stephen Byers has admitted that the government might have to
take a closer interest in the way the company operates.

The new owners have already withheld pounds 35m from the pounds 800m sell-off
price agreed in the summer, when the government handed over the operation to the
consortium.

The airlines said the asking price was too high because of the fall in traffic
across the north Atlantic. Since September 11, that traffic has declined by more
than 30%.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              157 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 3, 2001

500 go at 'exclusion zone' hotel group

BYLINE: Andrew Clark

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 311 words


Millennium & Copthorne Hotels is cutting 500 jobs after suffering a "very
serious" collapse in profits since September's terrorist attacks, which damaged
the firm's Millennium Hilton near the World Trade Centre.

The company said its US revenue fell 61% in September, with a decline of 39% in
the first three weeks of October. Business at M&C's London hotels has fallen
29%.

Chief executive John Wil son said: "We've suffered a very bad reduction in
revenue since the terrible events of September 11. It's clearly very serious,
although we will still be operating profitably."

Half of the redundancies will be in Britain, largely among administrative staff
at the firm's offices in London and Surrey. The rest will be in the US, where
the company makes a third of its profits.

M&C has cut the working hours of its hotel staff and encouraged employees to
take as much leave as possi ble. The company has also made "relatively painless"
cutbacks by employing fewer casual kitchen workers, waiters and cleaners.

Analysts at M&C's house broker, Deutsche Bank, cut their forecast for full-year
profits from pounds 117m to pounds 55m. The shares, which were 360p in early
September, fell 3p to 213p.

In New York, M&C's Millennium Hilton, which is within an exclusion zone around
the World Trade Centre, is likely to be closed for up to a year. It suffered
damage from dust and smoke and from debris crashing through its glass facade,
although its structure is intact.

Mr Wilson said: "I could hardly believe what I was looking at with my own eyes.
There's still no access to the site - it's the scene of a major crime
investigation."

M&C has received an initial pounds 7.5m from insurers to cover loss of business
at the hotel. The company, which has 86 hotels, is controlled by Singapore firm
City Developments, which has a 52% stake.


LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              158 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                November 3, 2001

Graduate jailed for three years over hoax phone call

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 384 words


A graduate who watched television coverage of the September 11 terrorist attacks
on America and then telephoned police to warn that Britain was also to be
"bombarded", was yesterday jailed for three years.

In what the judge said was the most serious hoax call imaginable, Mossadek
Jouini, 38, claimed he was a member of the banned Palestinian Hamas
organisation, insisted it was responsible for the outrages in the United States,
and then claimed one of London's tallest tower blocks and the capital's Canary
Wharf development was to be targeted.

Whether that happened and "innocent people" were killed as a result depended on
Tony Blair, he told a Scotland Yard telephone operator. The attack, he said,
would go ahead if the prime minister's statements in the coming weeks showed
that he was backing the US.

However, Southwark Crown Court in London heard that the 999 call - which came
just four and a half hours after thousands died when hijacked passenger jets
were flown into New York's World Trade Centre and the Pentagon in Washington -
was quickly traced to a public call box in the busy Strand in central London.

Officers arrived so promptly Jouini still had the telephone receiver in his
hand. When accused of making the hoax call, he denied responsibility, asking the
two constables who had arrested him: "Have you not got anything better to do?"

Jouini, a Tunisian national, of Holloway Road, Upper Holloway, north London,
admitted one charge of making a hoax telephone call and one of possessing a
bladed article" - a five-inch-long knife.

Bart Casella, defence counsel, told the court that his client, who first came to
Britain in the 80s, was "highly intelligent with a degree in international
business management and modern languages. "His behaviour that day was out of
character and could only be described as a moment of madness," he said.

But it occurred against a background of excessive drinking, depression and
mental illness brought on by his wife's decision to leave him for another man.

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin, QC, said he could not accept defence counsel assertion
that this was a "run of the mill" case.

This was "about as serious a hoax as one can imagine", and a deterrent sentence
was necessary to deter others from similar behaviour.

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              159 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

CAMPAIGN AGAINST TERRORISM: SECURITY - NUCLEAR POLICE FORCE WILL GAIN NEW
STOP-AND-SEARCH POWERS

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Home Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 542 words


DAVID BLUNKETT is to increase the powers of Britain's 500-strong nuclear police
force amid increased fears of terrorist attacks.

The Home Secretary plans to give the specialist force, which includes highly
trained firearms officers, powers to mount patrols and stop and search for up to
three miles outside atomic bases.

The UK Atomic Energy Authority Constabulary (UKAEAC) will be authorised to make
arrests at other civil sites, including sea ports, airports and railway
stations, to prevent terrorists attempting to seize nuclear materials in
transit.

Mr Blunkett's plans, which will form part of an Emergency Anti-Terrorism Bill to
be presented to Parliament this month, coincide with warnings of terrorist
attacks by the world watchdog for nuclear security.

The International Atomic Energy Agency, based in Vienna, warned on Thursday of
the danger of terrorists "targeting nuclear facilities or using radioactive
sources to incite panic, contaminate property and even cause injury or death
among civilian populations".

Britain's nuclear police are stationed at eight sites, including Sellafield in
Cumbria, Harwell in Oxfordshire and Dounreay in Caithness. The sites are owned
by three nuclear power companies, BNFL, UKAEA and Urenco.

Mr Blunkett, who hopes his Bill will become law by early next year, plans to
give the force further powers to police nuclear power stations such as those at
Dungeness in Kent and Sizewell B in Suffolk, which are patrolled by private
security firms.

A Home Office source said: "The Home Secretary feels these powers are needed for
the proper protection of nuclear sites, material and technology against the
risks from terrorists and others. In the light of the threat that is prevalent
at the moment he hopes the Bill will have a speedy passage."

Sources at the UKAEAC said the force intended to sign memorandums of
understanding with neighbouring forces to allow its officers to patrol and
search within a three-mile radius of nuclear sites.

The changes are likely to mean that the size of the nuclear force is increased
so that resources are not overstretched at existing sites.

The nuclear force, which has its headquarters at Abingdon, Oxfordshire, was set
up in 1955 with an initial complement of 320 officers and has grown with the
expansion of the nuclear industry.

Last night Bill Pryke, Chief Constable of the UKAEAC, said that he and his team
had been "working closely" with the Government to draw up the proposed increase
in powers.

He said: "We look forward to working with the Government and the director of
civil nuclear security, Michael Buckland-Smith, to implement whatever measures
come forward from this proposed legislation."

There are additional concerns regarding the security of small amounts of nuclear
material for medical and scientific use at hospitals and research sites.

Even tiny amounts of radioactive material could be attached to a normal high
explosive device to create a so-called "dirty bomb", which could contaminate
whole cities.

Mr Blunkett is also proposing to give increased authority and powers to the
British Transport Police to allow members to make arrests outside their current
jurisdiction of railway property.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              160 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                November 3, 2001

Big fight to win back the jet set

BYLINE: PAUL BROSTER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 332 words




MANCHESTER Airport and tour operators are fighting back in a bid to stem the
loss of custom in the wake of the US terror attack.  Travel firms have already
resorted to drastic cut-price measures.

And now the airport is turning to new technology to win back passengers.  It
plans to boost charter travel by allowing people to book holidays through its
website.  North west holiday giant Airtours reported a surge in bookings after
cut-price deals, including sunshine breaks from GBP 1.

Richard Carrick, chief executive of Airtours in the UK, said: We are optimistic
we have weathered the storm and that the worst is over.'' He forecast the
company's winter breaks, which were reduced by 12 per cent after September 11,
would sell out and extra flights from Manchester Airport to Italy have been
arranged to cope with demand for ski holidays.

Summer bookings are still down 35 per cent, but have improved from a 50 per per
cent fall soon after September 11.  Tour companies across Britain axed thousands
of jobs and holidays after passenger confidence was shattered by the terrorists
attacks.

But Mr Carrick added: We have been encouraged by the level of interest.  Summer
booking are still well down but we believe people in the north west are defiant
and will still want their summer holiday.''

Thomas Cook, which includes jmc, also reported a surge in late bookings for
winter and sun and ski breaks.  But the company is still concerned about summer
bookings, which are down 50 per cent.

Spokesman Nick O'Donnell said: We hardly had a spare bed in Tenerife over last
week's school holidays but we still need bookings to pick up in the longer term
for the business to remain healthy.'' Manchester Airport managing director John
Spooner revealed plans to allow sunseekers to use the airport website to tap
into holidays.

He said: It is one area we really want to expect to work together to boost the
industry.''



LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: How the M.E.N. told on Thursday of the Manchester Airport worries

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              161 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 3, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: SECURITY SCARE: LOCKDOWN;
 BRITAIN'S AIRPORTS ON FULL ALERT AFTER MIRROR EXPOSE

BYLINE: James Hardy, Stephen Moyes And Don Mackay

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 647 words

HIGHLIGHT: CLOSED: A guard yesterday locks the gate to the hangar where we
exposed a security risk; SHUT: Staff are moved to another hangar


ALL Britain's airports were yesterday ordered by the government to tighten
security following The Mirror probe.

Furious Transport Secretary Stephen Byers sent inspectors to investigate the
shocking flaws at Stansted Airport.

Officials with the power to close down the Essex airport were ordered to grill
companies at the centre of The Mirror's security expose.

And the maintenance hangar which our journalists walked into unchallenged was
shut and aircraft moved to a more secure base.

Byers ordered an immediate probe and demanded that all Britain's 142 licensed
airports and aerodromes double-check security measures.

MPs expressed their anger that security at Stansted - one of Britain's busiest
airports - was so lax only 54 days after the US terror attacks.

Our reporter Aidan McGurran and photographer Phil Harris managed to drive past
an unmanned security post into a staff car park on Thursday. They then walked
into the maintenance hangar operated by FLS Aerospace and boarded a Boeing 737
belonging to budget airline Go.

The story sent shockwaves through Westminster as MPs reacted with amazement to
the security lapse.

Labour MP Andrew Bennett, a leading member of the Transport select committee,
said: "I am utterly appalled. Airports and airlines have a major responsibility
to convince the public that air travel is safe."

Airport bosses reacted by rushing through emergency procedures to ensure the
appalling lapse at Stansted was not repeated elsewhere.

At HEATHROW, the world's busiest airport, staff told of visible heightened
security beyond passport control in Terminal Two.

Costa Coffee worker Michael Maestre said: "The Mirror article was the talk of
the terminal. It caused a real stir here. There are a lot of police on duty
around the whole airport. Security is at fever pitch."

And a BAA Heathrow spokeswoman said the firm was "very aware" of yesterday's
Mirror article.

At Scotland's three main airports - ABERDEEN, GLASGOW and EDINBURGH - security
was "enhanced" after the Mirror expose.

A spokeswoman said: "BAA is treating the incident at Stansted as an alleged
breach of security and we are taking this matter very seriously.

"A thorough investigation has now been launched. After yesterday's alleged
security breach we've taken extra steps, enhancing what was already a very
efficient system."

A spokesman for EAST MIDLANDS airport said: "It is fair to say security
arrangements have been stepped up considerably. Everybody here has seen The
Mirror's article."

A spokesman at MANCHESTER airport said they were determined to reassure the
public that the highest standards of security are in force.

A spokeswoman for the BAA owned SOUTHAMPTON airport clammed up when probed about
the impact of yesterday's Mirror article. She said: "We won't comment on
specific security arrangements." At LUTON airport, a spokesman said all
necessary measures were being taken to prevent breaches of security like that
demonstrated by the Mirror. He said: "We try to be as vigilant as possible to
stop that happening here."

Stephen Henderson, President and Chief Executive of FLS Aerospace, said
yesterday: "The lapse of security exposed by the two Mirror journalists was
totally unacceptable.

"This morning's revelations must be a wake-up call to all of us. We must tighten
security to ensure such a lapse never happens again."

Meanwhile, passengers waiting to fly out of the nation's airports praised The
Mirror's expose.

Fiona James, 28, from Berkshire, who was flying out from Heathrow to run in the
New York marathon, said: "It's shocking that a reporter could get on to a plane.
I think the Mirror did a great job. It needed to be exposed."

And at Stansted, magazine art director Liz Baird, who was flying to Glasgow,
said: "I hope that someone's backside is being kicked over this."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              162 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 3, 2001

Terrorist hoaxer jailed for three years

SECTION: News, Pg.12

LENGTH: 364 words


A GIFTED graduate who watched television coverage of the September 11 terrorist
attacks and then phoned police to warn Britain would also come under attack, was
jailed for three years yesterday.

In what the judge described as the most serious hoax call imaginable, Mossadek
Jouini, aged 38, claimed he was a member of the banned Palestinian Hamas
organisation. He said the group was responsible for the outrages in the United
States and claimed one of London's tallest tower blocks and the capital's Canary
Wharf development was to be targeted.

Whether "innocent people" would be killed depended on Tony Blair, he told a
Scotland Yard telephone operator. The attack, he said, would go ahead if the
Prime Minister showed he was backing the United States.

But the 999 call - which came just four and a half hours after the U.S.
atrocities - was quickly traced to a phone box in the Strand in central London.
Officers arrived so promptly Jouini still had the telephone receiver in his
hand.

Jouini, a Tunisian national, of Upper Holloway, North London, admitted one
charge of making a hoax telephone call and one of possessing a bladed article -
a five-inch-long knife.

Judge Geoffrey Rivlin QC told him:

"Whatever the actual strength and determination behind this threat, a recipient
cannot be expected to weigh that precisely, and all calls of this nature must be
taken seriously. It was only when you were arrested, police were able to confirm
this was a hoax."

Defence counsel Bart Casella told the court that his client, who first came to
Britain in the 80s, was highly intelligent with a degree in international
business management and modern languages.

He added that on the day he made the call, Jouini had spent several hours
downing five pints of strong lager in a London pub, as the bar television played
out the scenes from America.

"His behaviour that day was out of character and could only be described as a
moment of madness, " he said.

After the case, Alan Fry, head of the Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch,
said: "We are pleased the courts recognise the serious nature of these offences
and the fear that they generate."

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              163 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                November 3, 2001

The cash crisis facing our fight against terror;
 Emergency services count the massive cost of dealing with a nation in panic

BYLINE: Stuart Coles ;Bev Hawes

SECTION: News, Pg.19

LENGTH: 360 words


ANTHRAX hoaxes and panic calls are creating a major financial crisis for
Britain's emergency services.

Chief Constables across the country have had to order massive security
operations in the wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks, which have drained
police money reserves.

Fire brigades and ambulance services are also feeling the pinch as they struggle
to cope with a string of anthrax false alarms.

In some areas, emergency services have warned they face meltdown in just a few
weeks unless urgent action is taken.

Metropolitan Police leaders say they have only enough money to protect the
capital properly for another eight weeks.

They have raided 17.5 million of reserves to meet the unexpected costs of an
extra 1,500 officers on the streets and a massive overtime bill.

Met Commissioner Sir John Stevens said the thin blue line was overstretched,
with officers sleeping in vans and police stations after shifts.

"This situation could not last indefinitely because police will not be able to
do the job if they are exhausted or shattered, " he said.

The authority's deputy chairman Richard Barnes accused the Government of leaving
police "hoping and praying" no major incident would occur.

Police forces in the West have had to deal with scores of hoaxes and false
alarms since the strikes on the World Trade Centre last month.

Within a few days of the first anthrax attack in America, Avon and Somerset
Police had more than 80 alerts.

Assistant Chief Constable Andy Drane said they had applied for extra money for
Bristol International Airport security.

"Part of the job is to expect the unexpected but all forces are talking with the
Government about future financing, " he said.

The constabulary has been putting officers through fasttrack firearms training
and has a 24-hour presence at Bristol International Airport.

Mr Drane said: "There are armed and unarmed officers there partly as a deterrent
but also to act as a visible reassurance for the public."

Police forces nationwide are also dealing with 350 requests for information from
the FBI connected with the September 11 attack.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              164 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                November 2, 2001

Bath urged to capitalise on 'these difficult times';
 WEAK FOREIGN MARKET: terror attacks 'turned off US visitors like a tap'

BYLINE: Daisy Blake

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 346 words


BATH'S tourism sector should take advantage of the domestic market as the number
of overseas visitors dwindles.

That was the message given by Dick Ensom, president of the Bath Hotels and
Restaurants Association (BHRA), at the organisation's AGM.

He said the city's hotels and restaurants must grasp the opportunity to promote
themselves in Britain while foreign markets was weak.

He said: "There can be no doubt that the home tourism market is very strong at
the moment, a direct result of very unhappy circumstances.

"So let's not wring our hands over the weakness of the foreign market, but grasp
the opportunity which these difficult times have engendered, to promote
ourselves here in Britain."

He said overseas trade had been battered by a combination of the strong pound,
the effects of foot-and-mouth and the terrorist attacks in the US.

The foot-and-mouth epidemic is thought to have cost the city an estimated 19m in
lost income from tourists who have decided not to visit this year. Mr Ensom
added that the US terrorist attacks had caused the flow of Americans to Britain
"to be turned off like a tap".

Mr Ensom said some businesses in the city, where visitors annually spend 195m,
had been hit hard.

But he said others had not suffered as badly, and some had even prospered, with
many tourists choosing Bath for a short break instead of destinations such as
Exmoor or the Lake District.

"I don't suggest that in absolute terms Bath had a great spring and early
summer, but many parts of Britain would die for the volume of business we
continued to enjoy, " he said.

He said the September 11 attacks had not only stopped Americans flying, but also
many British people as well.

He said the difficulties had highlighted the importance of tourism and
encouraged the council to pour more money into promoting the sector.

He also spoke about the opportunities the city's new spa development would
bring.

"We should have a world class spa, offering us a world class opportunity to
re-affirm Bath as a world class city."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              165 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                November 2, 2001

LEADER COLUMN; COME HOME, MR BLAIR YOUR COUNTRY NEEDS YOU

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 254 words


ON Wednesday he was in Syria and Saudi Arabia and, yesterday, the Prime
Minister's helicopter landed in Jordan, Israel and the Palestinian territories.
Next week he will fly to Washington, his fifth trip since the terrorist attacks.
Weeks have been devoted to globe-trotting in a bid to secure his place in the
history books as an international statesman. But what about the domestic crisis?

Building an international coalition has, of course, become a central plank of
postSeptember 11 foreign policy. But this endless international diplomacy seems
to have relegated Britain's problems at home. The Government's record on public
services is appalling. NHS Accident and Emergency waits were worse last year
than when Labour came to power. The railways remain a national disgrace. The
education system is far from perfect either. We face a serious economic
downturn; jobs are being lost; house prices are beginning to fall and few of us
feel confident enough to splurge on the high street.

Mr Blair's pseudo-Presidential style must be held partially responsible. It is
notable that President Bush, other than a short trip to China, has barely
strayed from home. Mr Bush has domestic woes of his own. Tony Blair could do
worse than to follow his example and put domestic issues higher up his list of
priorities.

People have never had a greater need to see the Prime Minister visibly at the
helm. It is time to call a halt to this posturing on the world stage. Come home,
Mr Blair. Your country needs you.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              166 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 2, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: On the site today

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 203 words


guardian.co.uk/ afghanistan

* Britain after September 11 In the latest addition to Guardian Unlimited's
reports on the aftermath of the terrorist attacks on the US, we investigate the
impact on life in Britain. From Tony Blair's diplomatic efforts and the role of
the British army to the effect on the Muslim community and the business world,
we offer breaking news, comment and audio reports from our correspondents

guardian.co.uk/ ukresponse

Online discussions

Since September 11 we have invited commentators, politicians and opinion formers
to debate the issues with our users. Today, read what Fuad Nahdi, publisher of
the leading Muslim magazine Q News, had to say about his meeting with Osama bin
Laden. You can also look back on talks with Mark Lawson, columnist and
broadcaster, or Alan Rusbridger, editor of the Guardian

guardian.co.uk/liveonline

Different perspectives

The US-led bombing of Afghanistan has been supported and condemned from all
sides, mostly through the mainstream media. Here we look at the news, opinion
and religious interpretation of the west's response to September 11 as expressed
on Britain's Muslim and Jewish websites

guardian.co.uk/ ukresponse


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              167 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               November 02, 2001

ICI paints out hundreds in restructuring;
 275 jobs go from British workforce

BYLINE: by DAN O'NEILL

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words


CHEMICAL giant ICI announced yesterday that it would axe 275 jobs in Britain as
part of a "restructuring plan, " under which 1,300 posts will be cut worldwide.

ICI pinned the blame for the sackings on the "uncertain" economic environment,
following a dip in profits.

The industrial giant, which employs 5,000 people at more than 30 plants in
Britain, said that the job cuts would be spread across the country.

But its starch operations are expected to be hit hard, as sales have fallen
sharply since the September 11 terrorist attacks in the United States.

Chemical unions MSF, T&G and GMB started urgent talks with the company to find
out where the axe would fall.

MSF national officer Roger Jeary called the cuts yet another blow to British
manufacturing.

"An experienced global company such as ICI should be able to weather this dip in
profits without slashing even more jobs in manufacturing, " he said.

The company, whose products include Dulux paints, hopes to force through the
restructuring plan within two years and save GBP 60 million through sackings and
cost cutting.

Almost a third of the worldwide job losses will be in the US.

ICI reported that pre-tax profits for the three months to September 30 were down
11 per cent at GBP 108 million, with turnover down slightly at GBP 1.6 billion.

But company chairman Charles Miller Smith was not too downbeat about the dip in
profits, even though the firm had resorted to mass job cuts.

"Current indications are that sales for October will be slightly below prior
year levels, " Mr Miller Smith said.

He even boasted that the company's performance was "creditable, " given the
difficult environment, and enthused over the company's drive to improve
"costeffectiveness."

Last year, the group completed a three-year transformation programme, shifting
from a high-volume bulk chemicals business to a speciality products and paints
business.

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              168 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 01, 2001, Thursday

Graphics group rescue launched

BYLINE: By Roland Gribben

SECTION: Pg. 34

LENGTH: 226 words

ATTEMPTS were being made yesterday to save a large slice of Photobition Group,
Britain's biggest supplier of display graphics, after its parent went into
receivership.

Three directors of a key subsidiary, Photobition UK Graphics, swiftly set up a
company, Service Graphics, to handle the business as receivers from Arthur
Andersen moved in to run the holding company after the failure of talks with
bankers over a rescue package.

The group's trading subsidiaries are not covered by the administrative
receivership and there are hopes that other parts of a business employing 1,900,
including 750 in Britain, will be saved.

Photobition struggled to convince creditors, led by the Royal Bank of Scotland
and American note holders, to support a restructuring of the business and pounds
103m debt. Its shares were suspended earlier this week at 2 3/4 p, valuing the
business at just pounds 2.7m, against pounds 532m in March last year, after the
company said it was unable to produce results for the year to end-June.

The company issued three profit warnings in the run-up to the crisis talks with
banks. Eddie Marchbanks, chief executive, said the terrorist attacks in America
had damaged the rescue attempts. He added: "The banks did not want to lend
further money on the basis of concern over trading prospects in the US."
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              169 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          November 01, 2001, Thursday

Thomas Cook to cut 1,500 jobs in the UK

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 81 words

TRAVEL giant Thomas Cook is to axe 1,500 jobs in Britain and is asking staff to
take a pay cut of up to 10pc to slash costs after the US terrorist attacks, it
said yesterday.

Half the job cuts will be compulsory as the German-owned group moves to make
savings of pounds 140m over the next year in this country. UK executives have
agreed to cut their pay by 15pc and the company is asking staff earning more
than pounds 10,000 to cut their salaries by 3pc-10pc.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              170 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                November 1, 2001

War on terror: Travel giant wields axe

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 189 words


TRAVEL giant Thomas Cook is shedding 1,500 UK jobs and forcing staff to take pay
cuts of up to 15 per cent.

Stunned employees at the German owned company now face an uncertain future.

The decision to cut 1,500 jobs in Britain out of 2,600 across Europe suggests
bosses have been keen to limit the pain in their own country.

Any suggestion that workers here have been victimised to save jobs in Germany
will fuel anger throughout the company's UK operation. Half of the job losses in
Britain will be compulsory as the company aims to save more than GBP 140million.

UK executives have agreed to cut their pay by 15 per cent and the firm is asking
staff who earn more than GBP 10,000 to accept cuts of between 3 and 10 per cent.

The cuts and job losses have been blamed on the September 11 terror attacks in
the U.S. which, Thomas Cook claims, have affected bookings.

However, the TSSA union attacked the pay cut demand. Spokeswoman Jo Twite said:
'People working in the retail shops don't earn much in the first place.

Agreeing to take a pay cut does not guarantee jobs will be safe in the future.'


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              171 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                November 1, 2001

Thomas Cook cuts jobs and pay: Travel group asks highest paid to make largest
sacrifice

BYLINE: Terry Macalister

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 23

LENGTH: 564 words


Thomas Cook, Europe's second largest travel group, is to shed 1,500 jobs around
Britain and is asking staff to take pay cuts of up to 10% as business slumps
following the terrorist attacks on America.

Senior executives have agreed to chop their own pay by 15% and all those earning
more than pounds 10,000 will see their salaries cut by between 3% and 10%.

The company last month shed more than 600 jobs and union officials reacted
angrily to the latest moves saying those working in the retail travel agencies
earned little.

Thomas Cook, bought jointly by German airline Lufthansa and stores group
Karstadt Quelle this year, said last week it wanted to cut 2,600 jobs across
Europe to save pounds 330m.

Yesterday the group confirmed that half the British re dundancies would be
compulsory and staff were being asked to consider taking unpaid leave and to
reduce their working hours.

"We are currently experiencing very tough market conditions," said Alan Stewart,
the UK chief executive whose own pay will fall by 15%. "Whilst the measures we
are taking are very unfortunate, they are also necessary at this time."

The gloomy picture was confirmed by the Association of British Travel Agents,
which said industry-wide business volumes have improved since September 11 but
are still running at 30% below last year.

Thomson Travel Group on Monday announced plans for 400 jobs cuts in Britain and
Airtours recently deferred pounds 100m of expenditure.

Mr Stewart promised staff that pay at Thomas Cook would be reconsidered in
March, adding that previous wage levels would be restored as soon as business
stabilised.

The job cuts will stretch across the company's network of 700 shops and extend
to tour operators Club 18-30 and Skiers' World plus JMC Airlines, Britain's
second largest charter airline.

Thomas Cook, founded in 1841 and the oldest name in package holidays, plans to
close four of its regional airline bases over the next few weeks.

The pilots' union, Balpa, planned to meet the company on Friday but said it had
not been told of any cuts. "We are not happy that they have been talking about
their plans before we have been informed of the impact on our members," a union
spokesman said.

The Transport Salaried Staffs' Association said it would be seeking assurances
on job security for those not targeted for redundancy.

"This is a real blow to the employees, not only are they faced with the threat
of redundancy but they are now be ing asked to accept less in their pay
packets," said a TSSA spokeswoman, Jo Twite.

Officials from German trade union Verdi said they would not support any
cost-cutting measures that would serve to boost company results, which were
already "excellent".

So far Thomas Cook remains committed to keeping all of its travel agencies open
but has left the door open to future closures.

The latest round of redundancies follows announcements in mid-September that it
would make 105 staff at JMC redundant and phase out the role of 270 sales
administrators. The full number of staff being made redundant or offered
alternative employment was 635.

The group is also consolidating its tour operator subsidiaries' offices in
Peterborough, Bradford, Brighton, Isleworth and Dublin.

Mr Stewart said: "We hope to retain as many of the staff that this move will
affect as possible."


LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              172 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 1, 2001, Thursday

50 DAYS THAT SHOOK THE WORLD: MUSLIM VERDICT: WE'RE THE VICTIMS OF TERROR
ATTACKS TOO, SO IT IS ALSO IN OUR INTERESTS TO GET RID OF THIS SCOURGE

BYLINE: Mahmud Al-rashid Muslim Council Of Britain

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 605 words

HIGHLIGHT: STRUGGLE: An Afghan boy rests his hand on a fence at the Chaman
crossing


THERE is still a strong feeling in Britain that Muslims as a community are
responsible for the September 11 terror attacks.

The fact that Mrs Thatcher said she had not heard enough condemnation from
Muslims was not helpful.

She implied that British Muslims were partly responsible for the atrocity.

That seems to be a feeling that is gaining support in Britain.

But what people are ignoring is that there were more Muslims killed in the twin
towers attack than actual British citizens.

Muslims are suffering from terrorist attacks around the world and we are equally
targets of terrorism and it is very much in our interests to get rid of this
scourge.

We should not be painted as though we are on the other side. We are all in it
together.

A terrorist bomb does not discriminate between a Muslim, a Christian or a Jew.
If it explodes it will kill everyone.

Another issue is the idea that Muslims are the enemy within. This is very
inflammatory and untrue.

I don't know anyone who wants to go and fight with the Taliban.

And from an Islamic point of view it is un-Islamic to do so because when you
become a British citizen you owe allegiance to the country.

People are saying thousands of British Muslims have gone to fight for the
Taliban. It is not true.

Senior police officers say only a handful of people have gone.

Many Muslims do go abroad to help in a humanitarian way. It is not only in
Afghanistan. A fellow lawyer has gone to Kosovo to help re-build the legal
systems there.

It is not clear that people have gone to fight for the Taliban. To paint us as
an enemy within is abhorrent.

You get people like my wife Sarah is white but because she is a Muslim she has
been tainted since the September 11 attacks.

Her family fought in both world wars, her father was in the RAF. You can't get
any more British.

But we went on a half-term break last week and were at a supermarket in
Nuneaton. Admittedly there were not that many Asian faces around.

She said that people had looked at her as though she she had semtex strapped to
her body.

Sarah is white but was wearing a head scarf. People were looking at her because
of the scarf. And her family have probably been here longer than the Royal
Family.

It is very unhelpful, these attempts to label a whole community as the enemy
within.

You couldn't get any more English than my sister, who cheers every time England
score a goal.

But many Asians feel alienated. I'm a lawyer and I'm in the courts day in and
day out helping white people.

I was born in Bangladesh, but in 30 years I've only been there once for four
days.

I am 37 now. This is my country - the place where I have invested my future.

This is where I hope I'll be buried, with my parents. I know this is very
personal but it is how I feel.

I did not feel alienated before September 11.Perhaps there are other Asians who
feel differently.

But for me it was not a problem.

Since that fateful day, there has been a change. Suddenly we are on the back
foot and feel that we have to justify our Britishness.

I pay a lot of tax by virtue of the job I do. Why should I have to justify my
Britishness?

The global situation is very tense. Tony Blair is doing his best. I read his
interview in the Mirror yesterday and he has made a big effort to help.

He has not labelled everyone appeasers and that is an important point. Vitally
important.

He said our democracy is strong enough to cope with different opinions. That was
a fantastic phrase.

I'm sure he believes it, I just hope other people believe it as well.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              173 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 31, 2001

Drill at Canary Wharf

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 69 words


LONDON: Britain's tallest building was evacuated yesterday for an emergency
drill in the wake of the attacks on the World Trade Centre on September 11.

One Canada Square, the 800ft tower at London's Canary Wharf, was cleared as part
of a safety review at the complex. The 50-storey tower, the second tallest
office block in Europe, has been highlighted as a prime target should terrorists
attack the UK.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              174 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 31, 2001

UK JOINS U.S. ON ALERT AFTER INTELLIGENCE SERVICE LEARNS OF FURTHER TERROR
THREAT; ARMED TROOPS TAKE TO STREETS AS NEW YORK FEARS NEW ATTACK

BYLINE: FROM TOBY MOORE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 673 words


AMERICA was last night bracing itself for new terrorist attacks as soldiers
appeared on the streets of New York for the first time since September 11.

Within hours of Attorney General John Ashcroft announcing "very credible"
intelligence reports of new assaults within days, National Guard units were
patrolling the streets of Manhattan.

Security was tightened at sports stadiums, leisure complexes, nuclear facilities
and water treatment plants.

And in Britain vigilance was also being increased. The nation's tallest building
- the Canary Wharf tower - was evacuated yesterday as part of a safety review at
the complex.

British Airways announced it is to strengthen cockpit doors on its entire fleet.
Virgin boss Sir Richard Branson will today unveil a bullet-proof cockpit door to
be fitted to his aircraft.

The warning was said to have been triggered by intercepted communications
between elements of Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda network.

Vice president Dick Cheney was taken to a "secure and undisclosed location" to
protect the line of succession should president George Bush be killed or
incapacitated, the White House announced amid new fears of a nuclear attack and
more anthrax cases.

Mystery surrounds how two women came to be infected with anthrax despite not
being postal or media workers.

Dr Anthony Fauci of America's National Institutes of Health last night warned
that the two cases mean any piece of mail that has gone through the US postal
system could now contain anthrax.

In a land of fraying nerves president Bush tried to encourage people to get on
with their lives. He was due in New York last night to help persuade them by
throwing the first ball in a vital game in baseball's World Series at Yankee
Stadium between the Yankees and the Arizona Diamondbacks.

Snipers were stationed on the stadium's roof, and sniffer dogs were stationed
outside to prevent anybody bringing in an explosive device.

Stringent security measures have been enforced across the country.

Police leave everywhere has been cancelled.

Air force fighters are on standby to intercept and force down any passenger
flight which appears to have been hijacked.

The separation of Bush and Cheney stems from fears in Washington that Osama Bin
Laden has acquired at least one portable nuclear weapon.

Intelligence agencies suspect Bin Laden wants to decapitate American political
leadership by setting off a nuclear bomb in Washington.

American investigators are questioning an eminent Pakistani scientist over
intelligence reports indicating Osama Bin Laden's Al Qaeda terrorist network has
acquired the technology to manufacture a viable nuclear bomb.

Dr Sultan Bashiruddin Mehmood, a leading figure in the Pakistan Atomic Agency
Commission and a supporter of the Taliban was arrested by Pakistani secret
servicemen at his home in Lahore and interrogated by a team of FBI and CIA
agents.

Meanwhile, alarm in America over the failure of government agencies to contain
the anthrax scare grew when it was announced that a hospital worker in New York
was on life support last night, the first case of the more serious inhaled
anthrax in the city.

The 61-year-old hospital employee was said by New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani
last night to be fighting for her life.

The discovery sent shock waves through an already nervous New York.

No tainted letter has been found and no evidence of anthrax where she works
despite 10 tests.

A government scientist warned that it was now possible any letter in the
country's mail system could be infected with anthrax.

Dr Fauci said: "As the days go by and you get more information, you make your
decision based on the information and balancing the risk and benefit of what you
might want to or not."

A third case of skin anthrax was reported at the New York Post newspaper. The
victim is said to be a journalist.

In all, the Centres for Disease Control has confirmed 15 cases of anthrax in the
past month, including three deaths.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              175 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 31, 2001

Straw defiant.

BYLINE: Keith Raffaelli (author email kraffaelli@lancashire.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 101 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw today insisted the British public had the "stomach"
for a long war against terrorism.

Mr Straw said Britain's reaction after the New York and Washington terror
attacks was "instinctive in support of our brothers and sisters in the US".

Speaking at RAF Northolt in west London, Mr Straw also justified Britain's
involvement in the military campaign against the Taliban.

He said: "The British people have seen the most appalling evil from the al-Qaeda
organisation and the slaughter of thousands of innocent people of all faiths. We
have to deal with that."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              176 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

TALLEST BLOCK IN BRITAIN IS EVACUATED

BYLINE: Mark Wilkinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 242 words


BRITAIN'S tallest building was evacuated yesterday for an emergency drill in the
wake of the attacks on the World Trade Centre on September 11.

One Canada Square, the 800ft tower at London's Canary Wharf, was cleared as part
of a safety review at the complex.

A spokesman for Canary Wharf said, "The operation went very smoothly.

"About 7,500 people work in the tower and it was cleared in 20 minutes, which
was a pleasing result.

"It was all part of our overall safety plan but it's no secret that in the light
of the September 11 incident all major buildings are now looking at evacuation
drills rather than just the traditional fire drill."

The 50-storey tower, the second tallest office block in Europe, could be a prime
target should terrorists attack the UK.

The evacuation was restricted to the office block and did not include the nearby
shopping centre or neighbouring offices.

A financial company employee in the tower, said, "The evacuation went very well
but we were able to use the lift as well as the stairs, which wouldn't be
possible in a real emergency."

But a media worker said, "It went smoothly but everybody knew about the drill in
advance so I reckon there was only about half of the 7,000 workers present for
it."

The centre's managers will analyse the data collected from the drill to see if
improvements can be made.

One Canada Square was completed in 1990 and is home to 27 companies.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              177 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          October 31, 2001, Wednesday

MI5 TARGETS EXTREMIST ISLAMIC WEBSITES FOR INFORMATION;
 ONLINE WALES SECURITY: ANTI-TERRORIST APPEAL TO GENERAL PUBLIC

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 231 words


SECURITY services hope to track down terrorists in Britain by appealing to users
of extremist Islamic websites for information, it has been revealed.

MI5 officials have posted messages on several websites aimed at rooting out
members of terror cells who may have played a part in planning the September 11
atrocities, a Home Office spokesman said.

It is hoped the tactic will shed further light on the terror attacks and stop
any copycat missions on the British mainland.

A Home Office spokesman said, "The purpose is clear. We are asking members of
the public to telephone us if they have any information that could help us track
down terrorists.

"To do this successfully it relies on the help of the general public."

The spokesman said several extremist websites had been targeted.The Sun
newspaper reported on Monday that one of the websites was a Saudi opposition
group which supported bin Laden.

Written in Arabic, the MI5 message reads, "The atrocities that took place in the
USA on September 11 led to the deaths of about 5,000 people, including a large
number of Muslims and peoples of other faiths. "MI5 (the British Security
Service) is responsible for countering terrorism to protect all UK citizens of
whatever faith or ethnic group. "If you think you can help us call us to prevent
further outrages, call us in confidence on 020 7930 9000."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              178 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 30, 2001

US gets warning of new terror attack;
 War on Terrorism: ON GUARD: FBI has 'specific and credible' information of
threat

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey ;Hugh Dougherty PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 440 words


AMERICA was on high alert today after US Attorney-General John Ashcroft warned
the country could face more possible terrorist attacks this week.

He said last night that the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a
fresh terrorist attack is planned on the US within the next week.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have received does not reveal the
target or the method of the attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week, " said Mr Ashcroft.

"The administration views this information as credible, but unfortunately it
does not contain specific information as to the timing or target." Mr Ashcroft
went on: "We have notified law enforcement to continue on highest alert and to
notify the FBI immediately of any unusual or suspicious activities.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions being taken.

"We urge Americans in the course of their normal activities to remain alert and
to report suspicious or inappropriate behaviour to the appropriate authorities."

Mr Ashcroft's comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic
support for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan.

He was urging the public to remember the horror of the September 11 terror
attacks which prompted military action.

In a speech to the Welsh Assembly in Cardiff, Mr Blair was to appeal to the
public to "never forget" the images of the airliner attacks on New York,
Washington and Pennsylvania and the human misery which accompanied them.

Speaking last night, Mr Ashcroft said bodies including the Federal Aviation
Administration, the departments of transport and energy and the Nuclear
Regulatory Administration had been put on the highest state of alert in
anticipation of the threat.

And FBI director Robert Mueller said: "On every occasion when the government has
received credible information we have chosen to warn our colleagues in the law
enforcement community and we have chosen to do so even though it is not specific
as to intended target or intended method."

In Britain 38-year-old Yasser AlSiri, originally from Egypt, has been charged by
police with terrorismrelated offences.

He was today appearing at top security Belmarsh Magistrates Court in south -east
London.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              179 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

PLATFORM: DECOMMISSIONING - A MINIMUM GESTURE

BYLINE: Robert Mccartney, Leader Of The Uk Unionist Party

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 506 words

HIGHLIGHT: DEVASTATION: the terror attacks on America changed utterly the
context of violence on mainland Britain as a part of IRA strategy


DAVID TRIMBLE'S recent article in the Belfast Telegraph displayed a cavalier
attitude to the real facts and the political intelligence of the pro-Union
electorate.

First, he suggested that it was pressure from his party that was the primary
cause of the IRA's gesture on decommissioning, and then he, apparently, accepted
that the act itself amounted to some form of decommissioning. People need
reminding that we have all been at this point before.

David Trimble's attempt to downplay the significance of the Colombian affair and
the terrorist outrages in the United States as the more powerful influences on
the IRA gesture will deceive no one.

Those events changed utterly the entire context of IRA mainland violence as a
component in their political strategy. A bomb in a major British city could now
provoke a severe response which might even include internment - a course to
which United States approval might render any resistance from the Irish Republic
difficult to maintain.

In such circumstances, Sinn Fein/IRA's only alternative strategy was to make a
minimum gesture towards decommissioning, but one of such ambiguity and secrecy
as to allow the British government room for spin, while permitting the Sinn
Fein/IRA leadership an opportunity to persuade its own membership that the
gesture or event was without any real substance.

Without substance, because the IRA had set the terms for its performance,
selected the site, determined the nature and extent of its contents, controlled
the means of their alleged disposal, and dictated for its own benefit a veil of
total secrecy.

In truth, so anxious were the two governments and David Trimble to accept
anything, that literally a single bullet with or without an ounce of semtex
would have been deemed satisfactory as a significant event, and General de
Chastelain is on record as having admitted as much.

The Sinn Fein/IRA statements that the gesture or event was made to save "the
peace process" provides the clue to their thinking. Sinn Fein has frequently
stated that the Agreement was a transitional phase in a process to bring peace
upon their terms, of British disengagement followed by Irish unity.

Has the media forgotten that the IRA spelt out those terms in its statement of
May 2000 which was then hailed as an historic breakthrough, constituting an
offer to disarm in response to the Hillsborough proposals of the two
governments?

It proved to be nothing of the kind, though it was sufficient to con David
Trimble into re-entering the Executive with Sinn Fein ministers. It was neither
an offer to disarm nor even a promise to do so.

The statement made it clear that "a just and lasting peace" could only happen if
"the root causes of the conflict were removed." Those causes were the claim of
the British government to a part of Ireland, partition, and the denial of
self-determination on an All Ireland basis.

The British Government then set a new target date for the completion of
decommissioning at June 2001.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              180 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

Do not forget horror of September 11, says Blair

BYLINE: By Andy McSmith, Michael Smith and Ben Fenton

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 601 words

TONY Blair will plead with the public today not to let the memory of the
September 11 attacks fade as the war against terrorism drags on.

His speech is part of a concerted effort by the United States and Britain to
rally public opinion as the bombing campaign in Afghanistan enters its fifth
week.

Yesterday, Donald Rumsfeld, the United States Defence Secretary, squarely blamed
the Taliban for civilian casualties and warned that the military campaign would
be "a marathon, not a sprint".

Their comments reflect anxiety in both capitals that public support for the war
is beginning to "wobble" as memories of the original terrorist attacks are
supplanted by nightly reports of bombing raids which have not yet put Osama bin
Laden out of action.

Mr Blair is expected to say in a speech in Cardiff: "It's important we never
forget why we are doing this, never forget what we felt watching the planes fly
into the twin towers.

"Never forget those answerphone messages, never forget how we felt imagining how
mothers told children they were about to die.

"Never forget the guts of the firefighters and police who died trying to free
others.

"Never forget the gloating menace of Osama bin Laden and the propaganda videos.

"Never forget that long list of countries who lost sons and daughters. Never
forget they were of all faiths and none, many Muslims among them.

"It is not us who are at war with Islam, it is al-Qa'eda and the Taliban who are
at war with anyone, whatever their faith, who does not share their maniacal and
fanatical view of the world."

Mr Rumsfeld told a press conference at the Pentagon: "Responsibility for every
single casualty in this war, be they innocent Afghans or innocent Americans,
rests at the feet of Taliban and al-Qa'eda.

"Their leaderships are the ones that are hiding in mosques and using Afghan
civilians as human shields by placing their armour and artillery in close
proximity to civilians, schools, hospitals, and the like."

He also warned the American public to be prepared for a conflict which would
last for "years, not weeks or months".

Political disquiet over the campaign was voiced yesterday in Parliament, where
Lord Jenkins of Putney, a 93-year-old former Labour minister and CND activist,
demanded an end to the bombing. He said: "The American air forces are probably
the force in the world that has killed more women and children than any other."

Ann Clwyd, the veteran Labour MP, told the Commons there was "considerable
distaste" over the American use of cluster bombs. She called for a campaign to
end their use, along the lines of the international agreement to ban land mines.

The Defence Secretary, Geoff Hoon, insisted there was no comparison between the
two types of weapon.

Bernard Jenkin, the Tory defence spokesman, questioned Mr Hoon about the
comments of Brig Roger Lane, of 3 Commando Brigade, Royal Marines, who had said
that British forces were weeks away from being able to launch ground operations
because of a lack of intelligence or clear objectives.

Mr Hoon accused journalists of having "deliberately" taken Brig Lane's comments
out of context.

Earlier, Mr Hoon rejected outright the idea that hostilities should be suspended
during Ramadan, the Muslim festival which begins on Nov 17 - only 24 hours after
the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, had said it was something the Government was
thinking about "very carefully".

"We cannot afford to allow Osama bin Laden, or al-Qa'eda or the Taliban regime
to regroup knowing they will not face military action in the course of Ramadan,"
he said.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              181 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            October 30, 2001 Tuesday

Civilians to fight crime with police

SECTION: ED SC1; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 175 words


BRITAIN'S largest police force plans to enlist civilians to help fight crime, it
emerged yesterday.

Metropolitan Police chiefs hope to recruit up to 800 auxiliary patrol officers
to help boost their stretched resources.

Civilian staff would have powers to detain suspected criminals, confiscate drugs
and fine people found drunk in the street. However, they would not have the
power of formal arrest.

If the plan is approved by the Home Office, the recruits could be on the streets
of London by next April.

The Met's deputy commissioner, Ian Blair, hopes the scheme will ease manpower
shortages, as the force faces an unprecedented workload after the September 11
terror attacks.

Auxiliaries would train for just two weeks and be paid Pounds 17,000 a year,
compared to the Pounds 25,000 starting salary of full constables.

Rank-and-file officers have already branded the plan 'policing on the cheap'.
Glen Smyth, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, said: 'The recruits
could quickly become a liability. My members don't have time to be supervisors.'

LOAD-DATE: December 21, 2006

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

US FEARS NEW TERROR STRIKE;
 INTELLIGENCE WARNS OF ATTACK THIS WEEK

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 235 words


AMERICA was on high terror alert today.

US Attorney General John Ashcroft warned the country could face more terrorist
attacks this week.

He said the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a fresh terrorist
attack is planned on the US within the next seven days.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence received does not reveal the target or the
method of attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week, " said Mr Ashcroft.

"We ask for the patience of the American people if and when they come across the
increased precautions."

FBI director Robert Mueller said the information was being released because it
was believed to be credible.

Their comments came as Tony Blair was today striving to bolster domestic support
for the allies' campaign against Afghanistan, by urging the public to remember
the horror of the September 11 terror attacks.

In Britain 38-year-old Yasser Al-Siri, originally from Egypt, was today
appearing at top security Belmarsh magistrates court in south-east London,
charged with terrorism-related offences.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TERROR ALERT: Attorney General John Ashcroft issuing the new terrorism
warning to all US citizens

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              183 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           October 30, 2001, Tuesday

BLAIR USES VISIT TO TALK UP WAR

BYLINE: Richard Hazlewood Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 584 words


TONY Blair was at the National Assembly today to bolster support for the war
against terrorism.

In his first speech to AMs, the Prime Minister is calling on Britain to hold its
nerve in response to the attacks on the United States last month.

Mr Blair's speech was to set the tone for a week of concerted diplomatic
activity, which will see senior ministers criss-crossing the globe in an effort
to maintain support for the allies.

However, a Guardian/ICM poll found support for military action has dropped from
74 per cent to 62 per cent in the last fortnight.

But the poll also showed strong backing for the use of British troops on the
ground in Afghanistan.

During today's speech, Mr Blair was expected to stress the importance of why
military action is being taken.

He was expected to say:

"Never forget how we felt watching the planes fly into the Trade towers, never
forget those answerphone messages, never forget how we felt imagining how
mothers told children they were about to die.

"Never forget the guts of the firefighters and police who died trying to save
others, never forget the gloating menace of Osama bin Laden in his propaganda
videos, never forget that long list of countries who lost sons and daughters,
never forget they were of all faiths and none, many Muslims."

Last week, the assembly became the first democratic institution in Britain to
put the UK Government's policies in the war in Afghanistan to a vote.

Among today's audience are members of Plaid Cymru, the only UK Parliamentary
party to have opposed the Government's strategy in the war on terrorism. Leader
Ieuan Wyn Jones branded Mr Blair's speech "inappropriate".

"He is using the assembly as a platform to gain support for military action,
including the current bombing campaign in Afghanistan, " Mr Jones said.

"The Prime Minister should avoid raising such a controversial issue which has
divided opinion in Wales."

During a day-long visit to Cardiff, Mr Blair was also chairing a meeting of the
Joint Ministerial Committee, the body set up to co-ordinate policy between the
devolved administrations of Britain.

FBI WARNS OF NEW US TERROR ATTACK AMERICA was on high alert today after US
AttorneyGeneral John Ashcroft warned the country could face more possible
terrorist attacks this week.

He said last night that the FBI has "specific and credible" information that a
fresh terrorist attack is planned within the next week.

But Mr Ashcroft said the intelligence they have does not reveal the target or
the method of the attack.

The alert was the second to be issued this month and Mr Ashcroft said it was
intended to warn police forces and government agencies across the country to be
ready for an attack.

"The administration had concluded, based on information developed, that there
may be additional terrorist attacks within the United States and against United
States interests over the next week, " said Mr Ashcroft.

"The administration views this information as credible but unfortunately it does
not contain specific information as to the timing or target."

FBI director Robert Mueller said the information was being released because it
was believed to be credible.

"On every occasion when the government has received credible information we have
chosen to warn our colleagues in the law enforcement community and we have
chosen to do so even though it is not specific as to intended target or intended
method, " said Mr Mueller.

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              184 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 30, 2001

Blair's useful international role

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.6

LENGTH: 604 words


YOUR correspondent Jonathan Ward-Hayne may be surprised to learn that I agree
that Mr Blair was able to perform a useful international role in the wake of the
terrorist attacks in America (Letters, October 13).

However, had this crisis occurred in a few years' time we would have the full
integration of EU foreign and defence policies and Mr Blair would have had
little or no part to play.

That is already the reality in respect of trade, where an EU representative
negotiates trade deals on behalf of us and all other 14 member states. If
protectionist barriers start to go up, there will be no British negotiator to
defend our interests. Conversely, because we are not in the euro, the Governor
of the Bank of England still attends meetings of the World Bank; France, Germany
and the other euroland countries are represented by the European Central Bank.

The UK Independence Party position, like that of the bulk of the so-called
Eurosceptic movement, has never been one of isolation. We believe in sovereign
states co-operating, as in organisations such as NATO, but not being forced into
assimilation, as is the case with the EU.

Far from acting in a praiseworthy manner, the EU has sought shabby advantage
from a grave situation in the pursuit of its own integrationist agenda, by
pushing through EU wide extradition warrants and requiring all secret
intelligence held by UK authorities to be made available to Europol. This is
what is known in Brussels as a "beneficial crisis".

If we wish to retain what international influence the Prime Minister has shown
he still has, and regain that which we have lost, we must sever our membership
of a club that seeks to constrain us and usurp that influence.

Nigel Farage MEP

For South East England, UKIP

London

Signing away control

I AM British and a senior citizen, and am ashamed and furious that control of my
country is being given to a dictatorial foreign federation.

Who is to blame for this? Of course our recent and present governments,
Conservative and Labour, now backed by the Lib-Dems.

At each EU treaty "summit", British government ministers have signed away
control of further areas of British industries and domestic affairs. And if that
isn't treason, what is?

All we need to do is to pause from our various activities, long enough to vote
against losing our democratic right of self-government.

Then we shall all be better off, financially and trade-wise, and with our morale
restored. If we have to continue changing money when travelling to or trading
with EU countries - as with the rest of the world - so what? It never bothered
us in the past; it generally worked in our favour.

As all must have heard by now, the EU plan is to split Britain into geographical
"regions" and the name "England" will all but disappear, achieving the Teutonic
dream.

Devolution of parts of Great Britain hastens this process. We should never
forget the old maxim, united we stand; divided we fall.

Jim Keir

Falmouth

Demolishing Britain

THE Prime Minister, Tony Blair, says he is modernising Britain. Demolishing is a
truer word to describe what he is doing. Millions for any foreign powers,
nothing for the NHS or the needy of Britain. They can fall by the wayside.

We need reliable trains, transport, healthy cattle in our fields, the fishermen
in command of their own waters, not the plunderers of foreign powers, and our
own metric measures and coinage.

British people need their nationality sovereignty, the Union Jack, the symbols
of our love and faith. Mr Blair should remember pride goes before a fall.

Mrs Lillian Morgan

Truro

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              185 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 29, 2001, Monday

BLAIR WILL TELL ASSEMBLY IT MUST KEEP ITS NERVE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 203 words


TONY Blair is due to make his first speech to the National Assembly in Cardiff
tomorrow.

The Prime Minister is expected to address AMs and call on the country to "hold
its nerve" in the fight against terrorism.

Tomorrow's visit will be Mr Blair's first to the assembly since he briefly
attended a concert after the Royal opening in May 1999.

He has already addressed the Scottish Parliament.

Last week, the assembly became the first democratic institution in Britain to
put Mr Blair's leadership in the war in Afghanistan to a vote.

AMs overwhelmingly endorsed his policies in response to the terrorist attacks on
the United States last month.

Mr Blair's speech is expected to be part of a campaign to boost public support
for Britain's involvement in military action. He is due to use the speech to
drive home the need for patience and resolve.

"Whatever our faults, Britain is a very moral nation with a strong sense of
right and wrong, and that moral fibre will defeat the fanaticism of the
terrorists and their supporters, " he will say.

Mr Blair is the second national leader to address the assembly, following a
speech by Irish Prime Minister Bertie Ahern on St David's Day.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              186 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 29, 2001, Monday

BLAIR DUE FOR FIRST SPEECH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 179 words


TONY Blair is due to make his first speech to the National Assembly in Cardiff
tomorrow.

The Prime Minister is expected to address AMs and call on the country to "hold
its nerve" in the fight against terrorism.

Tomorrow's visit will be Mr Blair's first to the assembly since he briefly
attended a concert after the Royal opening in May 1999. He has already addressed
the Scottish Parliament.

Last week, the assembly became the first democratic institution in Britain to
put Mr Blair's leadership in the war in Afghanistan to a vote.

AMs overwhelmingly endorsed his policies in response to the terrorist attacks on
the United States last month.

Mr Blair's speech is expected to be part of a campaign to boost public support
for Britain's involvement in military action. He is due to use the speech to
drive home the need for patience and resolve.

"Whatever our faults, Britain is a very moral nation with a strong sense of
right and wrong, and that moral fibre will defeat the fanaticism of the
terrorists and their supporters, " he will say.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              187 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 28, 2001, Sunday

DISASTER STRIKES! NOW WHAT?;
 DESPITE THE ATTACKS ON THE US, THE CITY HASN'T LOOKED TO ITS DEFENCES. NICOLA
CAPPIN AND LEO LEWIS REPORT

BYLINE: Nicola Cappin And Leo Lewis

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 445 words


The 11 September terrorist attacks on the US have exposed a critical lack of
disaster readiness among Britain's financial services companies. There is
evidence that even now proper measures are not in place.

Warnings have come from a number of sources, including the main authority on the
issue, the Business Continuity Institute. The BCI said that while Britain used
to consider itself prepared, the recent events have caught companies off guard.
This is particularly true for financial services, where business continuity is
vital. Last week, a BCI project to test City readiness revealed that "everyone
is going to have to seriously rethink their plans".

"11 September has drastically changed the odds," said BCI chief John Sharp.
"Plans used to be based on a one in 22 million chance of a building being hit by
a plane. Now those odds are a lot shorter."

A still more severe warning came from Capco, the financial services consultancy,

which described the industry's preparations as "woefully inadequate".

John Owen, Capco's chief executive, said that although many banks claim to have
disaster recovery plans in place, these measures fall short by a long way. That
this is an industry-wide trend is clearly shown in the US, he said, where many
big banks are still working on slow computers in temporary offices. "No one has
thought through business continuity for more than two or three days" he said.
"The measures they have are in place to deal with a power failure or a flood,
not the total loss of a building."

Based on his experience of working with dozens of big companies across the
sector, Mr Owen has spotted a number of alarming trends, and criticised the lack
of investment in emergency measures. "People ... are not prepared to spend money
on disaster recovery centres," he said.

Firms such as Guardian IT and Insight, which specialise in preparing companies
for worst-case scenarios, have been warning clients to reconsider the
geographical location of their disaster recovery sites after it emerged that one
big investment bank had its UK emergency centre just round the corner from its
Liverpool Street offices. They have been advising more and more clients to base
their recovery sites away from the City, preferably outside the M25. Both
Guardian and Insight have said that while they expected a glut of inquiries
after 11 September, the level of investment has been no different from normal.

The New York experience has also exposed the inadequacy of disaster plans where
companies are based miles away. For instance, one big bank had a site to
accommodate 50 staff, but found it had 500 staff needing an office.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              188 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                                October 28, 2001

MET MAY CHARGE OXFORD ST SHOPS

BYLINE: James Robinson; Retail Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 327 words


The metropolitan Police may ask Oxford Street retailers to contribute towards
the cost of policing Britain's busiest shopping thoroughfare.

There is already an increased police presence throughout London's West End since
the 11 September attacks in the US. Retailers want it to be reinforced further
in the run-up to the vital Christmas trading period. They are worried that
shoppers will stay away from central London because of fears of more terrorist
attacks.

Many companies have reported a sharp drop in sales at their Oxford Street
outlets in recent weeks. Retail industry sources say the police want them to
help meet the cost of putting more officers on the beat. Extra officers are
drafted in to Oxford Street each year in the weeks before Christmas to cope with
a huge increase in the number of shoppers.

In recent years, the congestion has been so serious that police have been
stationed at every major junction in an effort to control the flow of traffic.
Westminster council has considered radical measures to reduce congestion,
including the introduction of a pedestrian lane designed to separate slower
walkers from other shoppers. That idea has been shelved.

Retailers have contributed towards the cost of policing Oxford Street in the
past. In 1998, the Oxford Street Association, which represents almost 100
retailers including John Lewis and Selfridges, paid GBP 375,000 towards the GBP
500,000 cost of installing a closed-circuit television system. It cut crime by
50%. However, many companies are likely to resist calls to contribute towards
the cost of policing the area, arguing that the taxpayer should pick up the
bill.

Oxford Street remains the biggest retail destination in the country, but it is
facing competition from giant shopping malls such as Bluewater in Kent and
Lakeside in Essex. Foreign tourists, who make up a significant proportion of
Oxford Street shoppers, are reassured by a high police presence.


LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              189 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 28, 2001, Sunday

POUNDS 400M BOOST TO JOB BLACKSPOTS

BYLINE: Vincent Moss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 180 words


GORDON Brown is to unveil a pounds 400million package next month to help
Britain's unemploymentblackspots.

The Chancellor will reveal a host of measures to help struggling firms create
thousands of new jobs.

The move comes in the wake of up to 100,000 job losses following the terrorist
attacks in the United States on September 11. British Airways, Rolls-Royce and
Virgin are among the big firms who have announced plans to sack thousands of
staff.

But a "cautiously optimistic" Mr Brown is determined to steer Britain away from
full-blown recession with a series of announcements in next month's pre-Budget
report. He will give regional development agencies more money to nurture new
firms and help people who want to set up their own businesses.

Technology firms will get new tax breaks to encourage them to develop and
research new products. Areas targeted include Liverpool, the North East and
Cornwall.

A senior Treasury source said: "The measures will help manufacturing firms,
create jobs and offer incentives to people starting up businesses."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              190 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

Travel firm cuts staff as attacks hit bookings

BYLINE: By Richard Eden

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 204 words

THOMAS COOK, the travel agency, announced yesterday that it was cutting
thousands of jobs in the aftermath of the terrorist attacks in America.

The company, which was taken over by a German group last year, said it would
close 100 shops after reporting a 12 per cent drop in winter bookings.

There was no breakdown of how many jobs will go in Britain, where voluntary
redundancy schemes and cuts in working hours have already been announced.

The number of jobs across the group would be cut by 10 per cent, the company
said in a statement from Germany. Planned capital expenditure would be reduced
by half. Thomas Cook employs 16,000 people in Britain and 14,000 on the
Continent.

"It is unfortunate that we are having to look at cost reduction measures across
the group, but necessary given the current trading conditions," said Alan
Stewart, chief executive of Thomas Cook UK.

"What we are experiencing throughout the industry is that customers are not
committing themselves for holidays for later this winter and for next summer,
and this is clearly affecting revenues."

The TSSA, a travel industry trade union, accused the firm of planning only for
the short-term.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              191 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

British holidaymakers look to home Survey reveals up to a million tourists will
opt for winter breaks in the United Kingdom following US terror attacks on
September 11

BYLINE: By Rosemary Behan

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 632 words

Nearly one million people in Britain have decided to holiday at home instead of
abroad between now and the New Year as a result of last month's terrorist
attacks in the United States, according to a survey conducted by the English
Tourism Council (ETC).

A telephone poll carried out among a sample of 1,001 British adults between
October 5 and 7 suggested that one out of every 10 people say the events of
September 11 have affected their holiday plans between now and the end of
December. From an adult population of 40 million, this means that up to four
million people have changed their travel plans. Nearly a fifth of those
questioned - translating into 900,000 people - have opted for British holidays
instead of travelling abroad.

The survey found that a further one million people have postponed trips, while
two million say they are holdling off making any firm plans until the situation
is clearer. About 15 per cent (700,000) have chosen to cancel their holidays,
whether at home or abroad.

The survey findings confirm widespread reports of a downturn in business for
many tour operators and airlines that provide overseas holidays. Some operators
are now successfully selling holiday packages in Britain to people who were
planning to go abroad.

A spokesman for the Association of British Travel Agents, which this week
launched a poster campaign encouraging people to book holidays in Britain, said
domestic bookings were up by 10 per cent on this time last year.

John Slatcher, managing director of Shearings, Britain's biggest coach-tour
operator, said his company had seen an "incredible" rise in bookings for
holidays in the next three months. Bookings for November, for example, have
risen from 27,000 to 38,800 - a 40 per cent increase year-on-year.

Mr Slatcher said that, because of the uncertainty caused by the events of
September 11, "people are stopping in the UK". English seaside resorts, historic
towns such as York, Stratford and Cirencester and all areas of Scotland were
proving the most popular destinations, he said. Bookings for next year were also
up 34 per cent. "I don't know how long this will go on for, but we're certainly
not complaining," he said.

Nick Cust, joint managing director of Supabreak, one of Britain's biggest
short-break operators, said the company had had a "record trading day" on
Monday, with a 22 per cent rise in last-minute, half-term holiday bookings
compared to last year. London had started to recover from a downturn, while
other parts of the country were "very much up on last year". "Edinburgh, York,
Bath and coastal towns such as Brighton, Bournemouth and Blackpool are proving
very strong", he said.

An increase in the number of holidays taken at home would provide a much needed
boost to domestic tourism following the negative impact of foot and mouth
disease. It could also help to mitigate the predicted fall in the number of
overseas visitors coming to Britain following the terrorist attacks.

English tourism is worth pounds 52 billion a year to the economy. However,
pounds 4 out of every pounds 5 spent on tourism in Britain comes from domestic
tourists.

Mary Lynch, chief executive of the ETC, said: "The impact of the terrorist
attacks has been enormous. But we could take the edge off some of the worst
effects on tourism by making it easy for people to holiday at home. During the
height of the foot and mouth outbreak, we saw a big surge in late bookings as it
got nearer to holiday periods and there may still be lots of last-minute
bookings for trips in England.

"People planning trips for next year may be thinking more about holidaying at
home. This should be an opportunity for tourism businesses in England to impress
holidaymakers from the UK with their quality and value for money."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              192 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                October 27, 2001

ATTACK ON UK FOILED

BYLINE: by MICAHEL BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 148 words


POLICE foiled a terror attack by a team of Osama bin Laden's crazed followers
just minutes before they were due to launch a strike on Britain.

Ten suspected bin Laden followers were arrested in February this year following
a two-month undercover operation led by MI5 and Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist
branch.

The arrests thwarted a planned terrorist attack on a British target.

The last of the suspects to be rounded up by British police were cornered at
Heathrow Airport - giving rise to fears that the men were planning to carry out
a similar suicide hijacking to those seen in America on September 11.

The planned attack was revealed in a secretly taped conversation in March this
year between Islamic extremist Sami Ben Khamis Essid and an associate known only
as Khaled.

The two men were covertly taped by members of the Italian Police's Anti-terror
squad.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 Express Newspapers

                              193 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 27, 2001

BLAIR WARNS OF NUCLEAR TERROR THREAT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 228 words


TONY Blair said yesterday that the allied action against Afghanistan was vital
to stopping Osama Bin Laden acquiring nuclear weapons.

He spoke as the Government confirmed it was putting 200 Royal Marine Commandos
on stand-by for action, backed up by a 4,000-strong force with a task force of
warships.

The Prime Minister told British Forces Radio it was a "huge responsibility" to
deploy troops, insisting: "It is only in circumstances where I believe it is
absolutely essential that we commit British forces.

"I do believe that this is a fight worth undertaking because of what is at stake
in the world. If these terrorists who killed over 6,000 people in America are
allowed to carry on building up their network, possibly acquiring chemical,
biological even nuclear weapons of mass destruction, our world will be an
insecure, unsafe place and there will be no corner of the world - particularly
not a place like Britain - that will be untouched by that."

His official spokesman said yesterday that people should remember the terror
attacks on America when they wear poppies in the coming weeks to commemorate
Britain's war dead.

Mr Blair and his wife Cherie did their best to show it is safe to go out and
about in London by taking in a visit to the theatre. They enjoyed an evening at
the Albery Theatre to see Noel Coward's Private Lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              194 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 27, 2001

...BUT THOMAS COOK AXES 2,600

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 136 words


BRITAIN'S tourism industry suffered another shattering blow last night as Thomas
Cook scrapped 2,600 jobs - a tenth of its workforce.

Europe's second biggest travel firm said winter bookings had fallen by 12 per
cent.

Thomas Cook refused to say where the jobs would go, but confirmed at least 100
of its travel shops would close and some charter flights would be grounded.

The Peterborough-based firm employs 26,500 people across Europe and had already
called for voluntary job cuts and reduced working hours following the terrorist
attacks on the United States.

It also emerged the number of foreign visitors to Britain has dropped by nearly
a quarter since the September 11 attacks, the biggest fall since the Gulf War 10
years ago.

Experts warned October's figures could be even worse.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              195 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 27, 2001

CITY AND BUSINESS EDITED BY STEPHEN KAHN; UK GROWTH RATE DEFIES THE GLOBAL
SLOWDOWN

SECTION: CITY; Pg. 91

LENGTH: 232 words


BRITAIN'S economy grew at a faster rate than expected in the third quarter of
2001, defying the global slowdown that has been exacerbated by last month's
terrorist attacks.

The Office for National Statistics said provisionally the economy expanded 0.6
per cent in the three months, well above the 0.4 per cent of the second quarter
- a figure which economists had expected to be repeated in the third.

The breakdown of the data showed the economy was kept afloat by another buoyant
performance from the service sector, particularly retailing, while manufacturing
and industrial production suffered another fall.

This left the year-on-year growth comparison at a robust 2.2 per cent and
sparked debate on whether the news would influence the Bank of England's
Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) against more cuts in interest rates.

John Butler, economist at HSBC, said: "This is impressive. The UK has
outperformed the rest of the G7 for the first half of this year and looks likely
to have done the same in the third quarter."

But interest rate cuts should still be on the cards - even though sterling
strengthened after the news, reflecting the belief that a reduction had become
less likely.

"The kind of statements we've had from MPC members suggest they are open to
further easing of interest rates on global concerns, " said Danny Gabay,
economist at JP Morgan.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              196 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: HOLIDAY GIANT LAYS OFF 2,600

BYLINE: Clinton Manning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 143 words


TRAVEL firm Thomas Cook is to axe 2,600 jobs after a slump in bookings since the
terrorist attacks in America.

It said winter holidays were 12 per cent down since September 11. UK chief
executive Alan Stewart said he regretted being forced to make cutbacks but it
was "very necessary given the current trading".

He added: "Customers are not committing themselves for holidays for later this
winter or next summer.",

Ten per cent of the German-owned firm's staff across Europe will go. Thomas Cook
employs 12,500 people in Britain at 700 travel agencies and seven call centres..

Staff are being offered voluntary redundancy or the chance to go part-time, but
compulsory job losses have not been ruled out.

TSSA union, which has 1,500 members at Thomas Cook, said: "We will be seeking
urgent clarification of where the cuts will fall."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              197 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

THOMAS COOK LAYS OFF 2,600

BYLINE: Clinton Manning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 137 words


TRAVEL firm Thomas Cook is to axe 2,600 jobs after a slump in bookings since the
terrorist attacks in America.

It said winter holidays were 12 per cent down since September 11. UK chief
executive Alan Stewart said he regretted being forced to make cutbacks but it
was "very necessary given the current trading".

He added: "Customers are not committing themselves for holidays."

Ten per cent of the German-owned firm's staff across Europe will go. Thomas Cook
employs 12,500 people in Britain at 700 travel agencies and seven call centres..

Staff are being offered voluntary redundancy or the chance to go part-time, but
compulsory job losses have not been ruled out.

TSSA union, which has 1,500 members at Thomas Cook, said: "We'll be seeking
urgent clarification of where the cuts will fall."

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              198 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 27, 2001, Saturday

IRISH MIRROR COMMENT: NEW CLEAR LEAD

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 113 words


THE government looks like it will put up a fight when it comes to Sellafield.

And there might be a little fall-out with the UK over a new legal bid to stop
plant number two.

But the disintegration of cordial relations with Britain is preferable to the
disintegration of Drogheda.

British Nuclear Fuels cannot be allowed to build a timebomb just over the water
from the east coast.

Scientists, not politicians, have warned of the devastation from a terrorist
attack on this plant so close to our most populated areas.

Polite requests to stop it are being built fell on deaf ears.

We must pursue this legal avenue and back the government all the way.

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              199 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

MI5 IN TERRORIST HUNT ON THE WEB;
 WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 81 words


SECURITY services hope to track down terrorists in Britain by appealing to users
of extremist Islamic websites for information, it was revealed today.

MI5 officials have posted messages on several websites aimed at rooting out
members of terror cells who may have played a part in planning the September 11
atrocities, a Home Office spokesman said.

It is hoped the tactic will shed further light on the terror attacks and stop
any copycat missions on the British mainland.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              200 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

Britain likely to have the 'fastest growth' of G7

BYLINE: By David Litterick

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 321 words

THE National Institute for Economic and Social Research (NIESR) believes Britain
will have the fastest growing economy among the G7 nations this year.

The economic think-tank has revised up its forecasts for UK growth in its latest
economic review, despite last month's terrorist attacks.

It now believes the economy will expand by 2.3pc this year and by 2.1pc the
next. The surprisingly upbeat assessment of the UK economy also claims that
while unemployment is set to rise, there is no need for further interest rate
cuts.

Even if growth does fall short of predictions, the organisation says public
finances are robust enough to cope and that the Treasury will be able to
continue raising public spending without tax rises.

It adds that tax rises will only be necessary to pay for even faster spending
growth, increased military and security needs, or if the Government wanted to
facilitate lower interest rates as a move towards joining the euro.

Economist Nigel Pain said the major risks to the forecast came from a new slump
in equity prices, which he said could still be overvalued by as much as 10pc.
Problems could also be posed by a significant fall in consumer confidence
leading to retrenchment, or an unexpected downward correction in the value of
the dollar.

The institute believes, however, that the picture for the rest of the world is
not so bright. It claims that the world's three largest economies - those of the
US, Japan and Germany - are either in or close to recession, with the growth in
global trade cut to just 0.3pc this year.

Mr Pain said European leaders faced difficult choices, as unemployment was
poised to remain at around 8pc, while Germany, France and Italy were all likely
to overshoot their budget deficit targets.

Its outlook comes in stark contrast to that of employers' organisation the CBI
which this week demanded a half-point rate cut to boost ailing manufacturers.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              201 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 26, 2001

HOLIDAY PASSENGERS' MID-AIR TERROR AS ARMED JET IS SCRAMBLED AFTER HIJACK PLOT
FEARED AT 30,000FT; OH GOD, JUST LIKE IT'S GOING TO BE NEW YORK AGAIN

BYLINE: BY JACK GEE IN PARIS AND DAVID SMITH IN LONDON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 556 words


TOURISTS told of their terror last night after their British holiday jet was
buzzed by a French fighter bomber at 30,000 feet.

As the military jet roared up to their wing tip, one woman cried: "Oh my God,
it's going to be like New York again."

The worst fear of every airline passenger since the terrorist attacks on
September 11 was in the minds of the 126 passengers on board Flight GO116 from
Malaga to Stansted.

French air ministry insiders claimed last night that the Mirage was indeed on
alert for a possible hijack.

The drama unfolded on Monday when the Go Boeing 737-300 entered French airspace
en route to Britain.

Officials claimed it lost radio contact with French air traffic control,
prompting the authorities to send up the Mirage to investigate.

But unofficial sources said last night the situation was far more serious,
centring on a French intelligence report of a terrorist plot. Fearing the worst,
they dispatched their top gun Mirage 2000, typically armed with Magic, Super 530
and MICA missiles. A French air ministry source told the Daily Express: "A phone
conversation was intercepted by our intelligence indicating the Go airliner was
to be the target of a terrorist attack."

Another source said: "The decision to scramble that Mirage into the airspace
where the Go plane was flying was taken at short notice. It showed how quickly
the French air force can intervene in this sort of emergency.

"In fact, it was a false alert. The intercepted phone conversation might even
have been a hoax, deliberately designed to scare the living daylights out of the
French defence establishment."

French officials refused to confirm the threat, and in Britain budget airline Go
denied reports of a terrorist plot.

"The flight left Malaga on time at 11.50am and, as it was transferring from
Spanish to French airspace, there was a temporary loss of radio communication
with air traffic control, " a spokeswoman said.

"A French military plane was sent to accompany the Go flight and stayed with it
for about 10 minutes to ensure it was operating normally. Contact was
re-established with air traffic control."

Renny Dobbs, 45, who was on the plane after a week's holiday with his wife
Elaine, said: "If we'd have known about a suspected terrorist attack at the time
we'd have been petrified. It was a blessing to us in that situation not to know.

It shows it was not a routine procedure, as the captain had claimed."

He added: "The first thing I knew was an announcement from the captain. He said:
'For those on the left side, there's an interesting sight, a French Mirage.' I
did and could see a Mirage on our wing tip.

Everybody stared and started whispering and getting worried. There was alarm and
people around us were quite scared.

Behind me some people started demanding what the hell was going on.

"The Mirage was so close I could see the pilot's head moving, as if he was
looking for something wrong with the plane. He was looking under and around it
for 20 to 25 minutes."

Mr Dobbs, a publican from Margate, Kent, added: "The captain said he'd spoken to
the Mirage pilot and asked him to swap sides so people sitting on the right
could see, although that didn't happen.

"That finally calmed people down as they realised things wouldn't go wrong."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              202 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE JOURNAL (Newcastle, UK)

                       October 26, 2001, Friday Edition 1

Operators confirm tourism slump

SECTION: BUSI, Pg. 34

LENGTH: 147 words







The terrorist attacks on America led to the biggest one-month fall in tourist
arrivals to Britain since the Gulf War 10 years ago, it was announced yesterday.

The number of foreign tourists dipped by 23.62pc in September, the British
Incoming Tour Operators Association [BITOA] said

The association believes this month's figures could be even worse and it now
reckons international arrivals in Britain will fall from 25m in 2000 to just 20m
in 2001

Insurance collapse creditors legal hop

CREDITORS of collapsed insurer Independent Insurance hope to begin legal action
to recover some of their losses by the beginning of next year

The Creditors of Independent Insurance Group [CIIG] is gathering evidence to
establish if it could make a claim against Independent's actuaries Watson Wyatt
and its auditors KPMG

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                Copyright 2001 Newcastle Chronicle & Journal Ltd

                              203 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 26, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: 5M TOURISTS TO SNUB BRITAIN

BYLINE: Paul Byrne

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 316 words

HIGHLIGHT: GLORIOUS: Lake District is hoping for visitors


FIVE million foreign visitors are expected to stay away from Britain this year
because of the terror attacks on New York.

And the slump in the tourist trade will cost at least pounds 2.5billion in lost
revenue.

The destruction of the World Trade Center led to the biggest one-month fall in
visitors since the Gulf War 10 years ago.

Tourists dropped by 23.6 per cent in September according to the British Incoming
Tour Operators Association.

It believes October will be worse and international arrivals will fall from 25
million in 2000 to 20 million this year.

BITOA's chief executive Richard Tobias said: "Coming on top of earlier falls due
to the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease, this means 2001 is going to be a
dreadful year for the tourism industry."

Mr Tobias said it was still hoped events such as the Queen's Golden Jubilee
celebrations and the Commonwealth Games in Manchester will bring in visitors.

The figures, which relate to trips including at least one night's stay, showed
arrivals from abroad were already down 19.22 per cent in March to September
compared with the same time last year. That drop was blamed foot and mouth.

Tourist chiefs had hoped that spending by overseas visitors would reach a total
of pounds 13billion this year. They now accept it will be at least 20 per cent
lower as tourists from the long-haul markets of USA, Canada, Australia, Japan,
New Zealand, India and Singapore, stay away.

To help the industry get back on its feet, the British Tourist Authority is
investing pounds 5million on an international marketing campaign praising the
countryside, heritage, cities and sport.

But it is not all gloom. The English Tourism Council says one million Britons
plan to spend their next holiday in this country. A spokeswoman said: "If more
people do stay here, it could help offset the fall in foreign visitors."

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              204 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                October 26, 2001

Wharfedale MP in the frontline against terror.

BYLINE: John Heald (author email john.heald@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 341 words

DATELINE: Otley,Ilkley


A WHARFEDALE MP and Cabinet office minister has been thrust into the frontline
in Britain's efforts to guard against terrorism.

Shipley MP Chris Leslie has been working on emergency and contingency planning
since the attacks in America on September 11.

As Parliamentary Secretary to the Cabinet Office, Mr Leslie says he is satisfied
that the UK is well-prepared in the event of a terrorist attack.

He said: "The thing to always remember is that we still have no specific threat
to the UK as a whole, or any local area.

"I have been working with emergency planning officers, looking thoroughly at
plans we have put in place for various different contingencies. I'm convinced
they're pretty well worked exercises, and that the emergency services are fully
briefed.

"We want to prevent threats coming into the country and protect citizens at a
national and local level."

Mr Leslie said a package of legislation to bring in new measures, concerning
asylum seekers and other issues, is expected shortly.

Fears over terrorists using germ warfare came to Mr Leslie's own constituency
yesterday, when Shipley's postal sorting office was evacuated because of a
suspicious package.

Mr Leslie described continuing bombing raids on Afghanistan as 'necessary for
the future security of the world'.

He said: "As a minister at the Cabinet office involved with emergency planning,
I'm keeping very close track on the international and domestic scene. Military
action wasn't entered into lightly by any means.

"The Taliban are not an organisation willing to negotiate, and neither is Osama
bin Laden's network. Their goals are mass genocide and the annihilation of
Israel.

"It's not the sort of thing you can have a diplomatic front on, really. I think
it's important that strong action is taken by a global coalition."

Mr Leslie said the Government was keen to stress that the military action is not
an attack on Islam. He denounced bin Laden as 'not a true follower of Islam',
saying the religion is peaceful and tolerant.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              205 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 25, 2001

Efforts to bring back the tourists;
 PROMOTION: seven markets targeted in new 5m nationwide campaign

BYLINE: Emily Williamson

SECTION: News, Pg.8

LENGTH: 350 words


A MULTI-million-pound campaign to lure foreign visitors back to Bath and the
rest of Britain has been announced.

The British Tourist Authority has announced a 5m international promotion
campaign which is targeted at seven markets, including the United States.

Tourist chiefs say that visits from America to Britain dropped by around 60 per
cent in September, in the wake of the terrorist attacks.

Anthony O'Flaherty, chairman of the 120-strong Bath Independent Guest Houses
Association, said he had hoped the help would go further.

"The money is certainly welcome, but I would like to see more, " he said.

"It is not that the tourist industry has brought the situation on by not trying
hard or not investing, it is because of outside events.

"Bath is particularly affected because every third visitor is from overseas,
which is a very high proportion compared to the south west in general."

Officials from Bath and North East Somerset Council are spearheading work to
restore the industry in the city.

Action is being taken to treble the amount of cash spent on attracting tourists
to Bath.

The amount will increase from just under 50,000 to 150,000.

A new task force is also being launched to find ways of limiting the fall in
visitor numbers which threatens the 196m industry.

The money will be used to promote the city as the perfect place for people to
take short breaks or day trips.

The moves are aimed at providing a lifeline for hotels, restaurants, attractions
and other businesses which support between 4,500 and 6,000 jobs in the city.

So far this year the foot-andmouth outbreak and the terrorist attacks are
expected to hit takings in and around Bath by 40m.

Bath's heritage is also featured in a new book showing the variety and beauty of
the English landscape and the evolving lives of its inhabitants through the
ages.

Photographs of Robert Adam's Pulteney Bridge and the King's Spring and lead
-lined Great Bath at the heart of the Roman Baths illustrate a chapter on
'Quintessential England'.

'England's Heritage' is now on

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              206 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 25, 2001

THERE WILL BE MORE AIRLINE BLOOD ON WALLS SAYS CHIEF AS UNION TELLS HIM TO SELL
LONDON EYE TO STOP LAY-OFFS; NEW BA AS FEARS JOB CUTS SCARE OFF LYING GROW

BYLINE: BY GEOFF MARSH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 570 words


THE chairman of British Airways said yesterday that the airline industry is
"clearly in crisis" - and warned there were more job cuts on the way.

Lord Marshall said that the "blood was on the wall" and further redundancies
were "inevitable" across Europe.

British Airways passenger numbers have fallen by an average of five per cent
since the September 11 terror attacks. But at the moment they are 25 per cent
lower than they were at this time last year.

Lord Marshall said there was "not much sign of recovery" because of a drastic
reduction in the number of Americans flying across the Atlantic.

BA has cut 7,200 jobs in the past month alone. But he said more would have to go
unless passenger numbers returned to normal.

Speaking at an aviation summit in London, Lord Marshall said: "The industry is
clearly in crisis. It will never be the same again.

"The economic downturn was already affecting the airline industry, and cutting
jobs had become a necessity. As it turns out, much more drastic action became,
and is still becoming, necessary.

"For some carriers in already precarious positions, the situation has hastened
the inevitable."

He went on: "Airline blood is already on the walls and there will be more.

"Extraordinary times call for extraordinary solutions and there is no doubt that
the European airline industry is crying out for consolidation - that is,
cross-border merger, acquisition and joint equity venture."

But unions hit back yesterday by saying BA should sell its popular tourist
attraction, the London Eye, in a bid to avoid pay cuts and further job losses.

The GMB union said selling the Eye would generate GBP 70million for the airline,
twice as much as savings through proposed pay cuts.

The row came as tourist chiefs announced a GBP 5million international marketing
campaign to help lure foreign visitors back to Britain.

The number of visitors from America plunged by around 60 per cent in September
after the terrorist attacks.

The USA is one of seven international markets, including Germany, France and
Canada, that the British Tourist Authority is targeting in the campaign.

Chief executive Jeff Hamblin said:

"Timing is critical if we are to maintain and raise Britain's profile as a
desirable tourism destination. There is still a strong market for international
travel when the time is right.

"The authority's campaign centres on what are perceived to be Britain's four key
strengths - the countryside, heritage, cities and sport."

But the campaign has come too late for some operators.

Cruise liner group P&O yesterday reported a fall in third-quarter profits, again
blaming the US terror attacks. The group said pre-tax profits for the three
months to September 30 fell to GBP 121million down from GBP 123million for the
same period last year.

One-off charges relating to disruption following the attack - including
increased advertising - cost the company GBP 8.5million.

P&O said the next year's earnings would be heavily influenced by the political
and economic environment from January to March - its key booking period.

Chief executive Peter Ratcliffe said that for two weeks after the attacks,
cancellations rose and bookings dropped. "We have been trying to get people back
by upping promotional activities, and have moved operations out of sensitive
areas such as the Middle East, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              207 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 25, 2001

RECONSIDERING AUTONOMY IN WAKE OF TERROR ATTACKS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 129 words


UNTIL recently, I had considered that the best way forward for Scotland would
have been to obtain independence.

However, the events in America and Afghanistan have forced me to change my mind.

I feel that it has been brought home to me the need for the British people to
stand united in the face of these adversities.

Whilst I would still like to see the Scottish Parliament have more teeth, as
well as a form of federalism in Britain, there are still so many issues in the
world today in which the British people really should not be divided.

If anything good is to come from the recent terrible events, I hope it is that
we all have a new respect for one another, irrespective of ethnic background or
nationality.

James Kidd, Croftfoot, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              208 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 25, 2001

Union urges BA to sell stake in London Eye.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 99 words

DATELINE: Breaking News



London: British Airways has been asked to sell its stake the London Eye, to
avoid cutting jobs and pay in the wake of the US terror attacks.

The request comes from Britain's General Union, the GMB, which believes that BA
could save over 7,000 jobs by selling its 70m share in the popular tourist
attraction.

Public confidence in air travel has dropped following the events of September
11th. BA has already announced job cuts and has shelved a number of regular
flights.

The GMB will put its proposal to the company on October 25th.

October 24, 2001 11:00


LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              209 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 24, 2001, Wednesday

Egyptian held in terror raid

BYLINE: By Sean O'Neill and Richard Alleyne

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 385 words

AN Egyptian dissident with alleged links to the al-Qa'eda terrorist network was
arrested in London yesterday.

Yasser al-Siri, 38, has been sentenced to death in Egypt in his absence for a
bomb attack that failed to kill Atef Sedki, the former prime minister, in 1993
but in which a 12-year-old girl died.

He was taken from a tower block in Maida Vale, west London, after teams of
police officers raided the 16th-floor flat he shares with his wife and daughter
at 7am. They also searched bins.

Scotland Yard said the arrest was not directly connected with last month's
attacks in America and the FBI had not requested it.

Al-Siri, who came to Britain in 1993 claiming asylum, was being held under
section 40 of the Terrorism Act 2000. That covers individuals suspected of being
involved in the commission, preparation or instigation of terrorist acts in
Britain or abroad.

Britain has previously refused requests from Egypt to send al-Siri back to
Cairo.

Last week al-Siri issued a statement announcing the death in Afghanistan of Abu
Baseer al-Masri, a close aide of Osama bin Laden. His Islamic Observation
Centre, which he describes as a human rights group, has published a statement
said to be from Mohammed Atef, al-Qa'eda's military chief.

Al-Siri is also alleged to have written letters of introduction for two men who,
posing as journalists, murdered Ahmed Shah Massoud, the leader of the Afghan
opposition Northern Alliance, two days before the attacks on New York and
Washington.

Alexandre Silva, the caretaker of the flats, said: "He is always very friendly.
I rarely saw his wife and when I did she was always covered from head to toe."

Another police search team spent the day at the offices and bookshop of the
Islamic Observation Centre in Bell Street, near Edgware Road, north London,
where they seized computers, disks and documents.

The organisation operates a website which, between illustrations of dripping
blood, campaigns against the alleged torture of Islamist prisoners in Egypt and
calls for the overthrow of the government of President Mubarak.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph last week, al-Siri denied involvement with
terrorism.

"I am a journalist, if you like - a messenger. But I am not in any way connected
to bin Laden. I do not agree with everything he does."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              210 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 24, 2001

MPC likely to cut again: New woman on the block adds weight to Bank's dovish
tendency

BYLINE: Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 389 words


Expectations of another cut in interest rates rose last night as the Bank of
England's newest monetary policymaker came out as a dove.

Kate Barker, who joined the monetary policy committee in June, said that, for
Britain, the economic effects of the September 11 terrorist attacks could have
been worse if the MPC had listened to the arguments of inflation hawks and put
up rates earlier in the year.

"Had interest rates been raised, or kept higher over the summer of 2001 due to
anxiety about the growing trade and consumer imbalances leading to an
inflationary fall in sterling, then when the actual shock of the terrorist
attack occurred the UK economy would have been less well-placed to weather the
ensuing storm," Ms Barker said last night.

Before September 11, the minutes of MPC meetings had showed some members arguing
the next move in interest rates should be upwards, but since the attacks the
Bank has joined concerted confidence- boosting action by central banks on both
sides of the Atlantic and made two quarter-point interest rate cuts.

Ms Barker, former chief economist at the Confederation of British Industry, has
voted with the majority since she joined the committee. But her argument last
night that she is more concerned about protecting Britain against global
slowdown than correcting imbalances in the economy will be taken as a hint that
she will join arch-dove Sushil Wadwhani in voting for another cut at next
month's meeting of the MPC.

Comparing the British economy to a bicycle riding against "the set of headwinds
formed by the weak global background and the strength of sterling," Ms Barker
said: "I am not convinced that the imbalances are so large, and so unlikely to
self-correct, that we are about to fall off the bike."

Her comments, made in a RBS-Economic Society of Scotland lecture in Edinburgh,
came after MPC member Chris Allsop said in the Independent newspaper that he
expected further rate cuts. He said he expected lower rates in the future. "The
question is when," said Mr Allsopp, who was one of two members voting for a
half-percent cut at the Bank's emergency meeting after the US terrorist attacks.

Despite her dovishness, Ms Barker told her audience in Scotland that she expects
the economy to recover momentum over the next two to three years.


LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              211 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                October 24, 2001

Atrocities spark forces review.

BYLINE: our news team (author email news@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: Conference

LENGTH: 239 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove


Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon today announced an urgent review of the Armed
Forces in the light of the US terror attacks. Mr Hoon told the Labour Party
conference that they may need to "re-balance" Britain's existing military
capabilities in order to deal with the new threat of global terrorism. He said:
"We must have the right concepts, the right levels of forces and the right
capabilities to meet the additional challenges we face from international
terrorism conducted on this scale." Ministry of Defence sources said the review
would be "evolutionary not revolutionary". Mr Hoon said it would increase the
post-Cold War emphasis on "rapidly deployable, flexible forces" able to deal
with a crisis anywhere in the world. He said: "No one anticipated a threat on
scale of the threat we are now having to deal with. No one either anticipated
the kind of fanaticism we saw on display in those appalling scenes on September
11. We are dealing with a very different world." He said the review would also
have to look at the implications for Britain home defences. The review is likely
to emphasise the need for improved intelligence gathering capabilities. However
defence experts dismissed suggestions that it would mean a significant expansion
of the SAS. The special forces' stringent recruitment requirements mean that
there was only very limited scope for increasing their numbers without diluting
their quality.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              212 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          October 24, 2001, Wednesday

ATROCITIES IN US LEAD TO SLUMP IN LONDON HOTEL BOOKINGS;
 BUSINESS BRITAIN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 219 words


ACCORDING to research recently published, the September 11 terrorist attacks in
the US have led to a slump in London hotel bookings.

US visitor numbers - already on the slide because of the US economic slowdown
and footand-mouth disease - have dwindled since the atrocities, a survey by
accountants Pannell Kerr Forster (PKF) revealed.

The number of hotel rooms occupied by US visitors had slumped by 45.5pc during
September. The fall-off helped push occupancy levels in London down by 17.2pc
while daily room rates slipped by 6.6pc to pounds 117.47.

And PKF warned that conditions were likely to get tougher before they got any
better.

Melvin Gold, managing director of Hotel Consultancy Services, said, "October
performance figures are likely to be even worse, as they will reflect a full
month of travellers' fearful reaction to September 11, combined with the average
rate impact of hoteliers' discounting tactics in order to fill empty rooms."

September, October and November are some of the strongest months of the year for
four and five-star hotels in London. The three-month period is the busiest one
for business travel, while the summer months tend to be dominated by tourists,
who stay in two to three-star hotels.

In the rest of Britain occupancy rates fell by only 1.7pc.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              213 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 23, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Terrorists: FBI finds no evidence of al-Qaida network in
UK: Investigation focus moves to continent

BYLINE: Nick Hopkins Crime correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 8

LENGTH: 496 words


The FBI-led investigation into the September 11 attacks has concluded there is
"no evidence at this stage" to suggest that an al-Qaida terrorist network was
operating in Britain at the time of the atrocities, the Guardian has learned.

FBI officers who flew to London following the hijackings have returned home or
been relocated to Germany or Spain, the countries that have become the focus of
the investigation outside the US.

The FBI has asked Scotland Yard and MI5 to trace up to 24 people thought to be
living or in hiding in Britain, but no one on the list is considered to be a
"significant player" who will take the investigation forward. Many are already
known to the police. Though UK investigators have been told they are not "centre
stage", they have begun monitoring a number of mosques that are known to have
recruited up to 200 "young and idealistic" British Muslims in the past two years
to fight in places like Chechnya and Kashmir.

Illegal funding of proscribed terrorist groups is also an area of concern for
the police and security services.

"There is no al-Qaida grouping or formal Bin Laden support network in the UK
that we are aware of," said a source.

"There are people in the UK who believe in what Osama bin Laden is doing, but
there is little or no evidence that an organisation in the UK is planning or
carrying out terrorist acts. Britain is not considered a hub for this kind of
terrorism."

Scotland Yard's anti-terrorist branch and MI5 are scrutinising the activities of
outspoken radicals, including Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, the leader of the
militant Islamist group Al-Muhajiroun, and Sheikh Abu Qatada.

The Jordanian authorities also believe Mr Qatada, 40, a Palestinian who lives in
Acton, west London, played a key role in financing a plan to launch coordinated
terrorist attacks to coincide with the millennium.

The source told the Guardian that the FBI wanted the British to "look at the
people that have been seen before and decide whether they are dangerous, whether
they are stirring up disorder". The FBI and the French police have also asked
Scotland Yard to provide background material on Kamel Daoudi, who was arrested
in Leicester four weeks ago and has been deported to France.

He is a suspected member of the Takfir wa'al Hijra (Repentance and Holy Fight)
movement which began in Egypt. The FBI believes there is evidence to suggest he
was part of a plot to "suicide bomb" a US target in Paris, probably the American
embassy, using a stolen lorry or hijacked helicopter. The attack was supposed to
have coincided with the hijackings on September 11, but was aborted.

Germany remains at the centre of the worldwide inquiry - Mohammed Atta, the
suspected leader of the hijackers, lived and studied there. But Spain is now
thought to have been the second European hub for Bin Laden's supporters.

Special report on Britain's response to the terrorism crisis guardian.co.uk/
politics


LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              214 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 22, 2001, Monday

Britain in move to boost vaccine stocks

BYLINE: By Sarah Womack Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 06

LENGTH: 338 words

BRITAIN is in "active discussions" with America about increasing stocks of
smallpox vaccine and anti-anthrax antibiotics for civilian use.

While stressing that there was no "specific or credible" threat of bio-terrorism
to Britain, Alan Milburn, the Health Secretary, said the countries were pooling
expertise and considering the "joint purchase" of medicines.

His comments came as the World Health Organisation (WHO) said it was looking at
whether to call on countries to resume inoculations against smallpox because of
its possible use as a weapon.

Smallpox, eradicated worldwide 25 years ago, is one of 11 diseases that the WHO
has said could be used by extremist groups bent on carrying out biological
attacks.

At the same time, a document from the civil contingencies secretariat of the
Cabinet, leaked at the weekend, warned emergency services in Britain to prepare
for the largest number of civilian casualties in the event of a chemical or
biological terrorist attack.

Mr Milburn said: "We have got to get this absolutely in proportion. There is no
specific or credible threat of anthrax against us. We have got stocks of
smallpox vaccine. We have taken action to up the stocks."

In the Commons, Tony Blair faces a rebellion tomorrow by Labour Left-wingers
angry at being accused of appeasement.

They are considering using a vote over the conduct of Jo Moore, the special
adviser who said September 11 was a good day to bury bad news, to protest about
the Government's handling of the conflict with Afghanistan.

Adam Ingram, the armed forces minister, said yesterday that Labour rebels were
giving succour to international terrorists and should stop bleating to the
press.

"We are dealing with an evil that has very clear analogies with Nazism and
Fascism," he said.

Paul Marsden, the Labour MP for Shrewsbury, and others, accused party officials
of treating them like "circus dogs".

They threatened to defy the Government over the handling of the crisis.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              215 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                October 22, 2001

Million holidays hit by attacks

SECTION: GENERAL; Pg. 01

LENGTH: 248 words


ALMOST a million people have scrapped plans to travel abroad in favour of
holidays at home in the UK following the New York terrorist attack, according to
a new survey. The English Tourism Council found that one in 10 people in the
country said the outrage had altered their holiday plans. Fifteen per cent of
those, 700,000 people, had cancelled their holidays and more than a million had
postponed their trips abroad until later. Another two million said they would
not be making firm holiday plans until the situation was clearer.

The survey findings confirmed reports of a slump in business for tour operators
and airlines providing overseas holidays, many of which have now switched to
selling UK-based packages.

But the news is a much-needed boost for domestic tourism following the
foot-and-mouth crisis.

Chief executive Mary Lynch said: "The impact of the terrorist attacks on
September 11 has been enormous. But we could take the edge off some of the worst
effects on tourism by making it easier for people to holiday at home." l About
100 people, including Muslims and Christians, gathered in Derby yesterday to
offer views on the war against terrorism.

Leaflets were pushed through doors in the Normanton area, inviting people to
contribute to the discussion at the St James' Centre in Malcolm Street.  Topics
included the motives of the U.S. in taking action, and Britain's alignment with
America on the issue.

l Blair "straight" on troop casualties: Page 2

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2002

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              216 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 22, 2001

Defend the damned;
 BISHOP OF BARKING, ROGER SAINSBURY EXPLORES THREATS TO REFUGEE RIGHTS

BYLINE: ROGER SAINSBURY

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 543 words


LAST month, I returned from the World Conference Against Racism in Durban two
days before the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and Washington.

Both the conference and the attacks confirmed in my mind three important issues
regarding the rights of refugees and my fears about steps by European
governments toward changing the 1951 UN Geneva Convention on Refugees.

First, we must beware of a Fortress Europe immigration policy.

Durban showed that the number of those seeking asylum as refugees in Britain is
a very tiny proportion of the refugees in the world and that, in Britain, we
have historic, cultural, economic and religious links - particularly with
Africa, the Caribbean and Asia - that give us international responsibilities.

An agreed resolution at the conference stated very clearly our international
responsibilities over a Fortress Europe policy.

The resolution urges "states to comply with their obligations under
international human rights, refugee and humanitarian law relating to refugees,
asylum-seekers and displaced persons."

It also urges the international community to provide refugees "with protection
and assistance in an equitable manner and, with due regard to their needs in
different parts of the world, in keeping with principles of international
solidarity, burden sharing and international co-operation."

Second, the terrible events of September 11 could lead to new laws to protect
Britain from terrorist attacks which might be misused to implement negative and
restrictive immigration policies, including the misuse of detention centres.

The non-governmental organisation declaration at Durban stated very clearly that
"stress on restrictive admission and immigration policies and arbitrary
detention of asylum-seekers and undocumented persons produces negative
stereotyping and exacerbates a climate of xenophobia."

The conference declaration added that "special attention should be given to the
violations of the human rights of refugees in refugee camps and detention
centres."

I have real fears about recent legislation that has given immigration officers
the power to arrest asylum-seekers and about the impact of a pilot scheme where
I live in east London.

Third, the experience in Durban showed the importance, in the words of a recent
Guardian article, of "listening to the damned."

Many in Durban, like the Dallits from India, aboriginal people from Australia
and Romany gypsies from eastern Europe, feel damned by the attitudes of the
wider community and the same is true for the majority of asylum-seekers in
Britain.

As a Christian who, in my vocation as a bishop, seeks to follow one who listened
to the damned, this disturbs me greatly.

In the Churches Commission for Racial Justice, we have recently commissioned a
report called Surviving Asylum, which has already included 188 interviews with
asylum-seekers in Britain.

My hope is that, when the report is published next year, it will have a big
impact on government policy and stop the erosion of the rights of refugees and
asylum-seekers.

Only as we face up to the truth about asylum-seekers will we be free as a nation
and not enslaved by negative media portrayals of the situation.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              217 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

REVEALED: UK'S SECRET BIO-TERROR BLUEPRINT;
 16-PAGE PAPER SENT TO ALL COUNCILS T 'PREPARE FOR HIGHEST CASUALTIES EVER'

BYLINE: Severin Carrell And Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 598 words


Emergency services have been warned by the Government to prepare for the largest
number of civilian casualties ever seen in Britain, in the event of a chemical
or biological terrorist attack.

A confidential document leaked to The Independent on Sunday reveals that
thousands of people could be contaminated and emergency services and mortuaries
overwhelmed if an attack were launched without warning.

The 16-page document, Response to the Deliberate Release of Chemicals and
Biological Agents, was issued to local councils and fire brigades on Thursday by
the civil contingencies secretariat of the Cabinet Office. The Government did
not announce that it had been sent out, and an earlier draft, also seen by this
newspaper, stated that its contents "should not be disclosed to members of the
public".

Ian Hoult, the general secretary of the Emergency Planning Society, said
yesterday that publication of the document should reassure the public. The World
Health Organisation has told governments that "clear and accurate communication
of the risks to the public is paramount".

Despite the spate of anthrax incidents in the US - which have so far infected
eight people, killing one - the Cabinet Office document suggests that the risk
of "a large-scale deliberate release" is low. Investigators now suspect the US
attacks may be the work of a home-grown right-wing group rather than Osama bin
Laden's al-Qa'ida. Further traces of anthrax were found in a mailroom of a US
House of Representatives office building, officials said.

The Government has consistently stressed that there is no expectation of
chemical or biological attack in the UK, but the report admits it is "possible".
The Public Health Laboratory Service has issued detailed instructions to
Britain's doctors and hospitals on how to combat "deliberate releases" of
anthrax, smallpox, botulism and plague. They are likely to cause controversy
because they indicate that doctors and emergency workers - but not the general
public - should be vaccinated before exposure to anthrax and smallpox.

The report says: "The number of casualties could far exceed that resulting from
any previous major incident in this country." Attacks "would be particularly
dangerous where a large number of people were assembled in an enclosed area".
Chemical attacks, perhaps using sarin, a nerve gas, would probably affect
victims within 60 seconds, but biological attacks, such as anthrax, could take
days to emerge.

Hospitals, surgeries, and mortuaries could be unable to cope, with temporary
facilities needed. The public would be asked to say indoors, and would only be
evacuated if this posed a major threat to health. "Large-scale evacuation could
be extremely difficult and time- consuming." The guidance also reveals that
ministers would take command in a chemical or biological attack by invoking
secret national emergency plans.

Home Office ministers in the Cobra civil emergency committee would oversee the
emergency response. The army would be drafted in to help the police, along with
MI5, though references to it have been excised from the final version of the
document.

Senior emergency planning officers, who complained last month about being kept
in the dark by the Government, said the report "gave a very good over-all,
joined-up framework".

Meanwhile the Government has announced that a new law will be brought in next
month - backdated to midnight last night - which will mean anthrax- hoaxers
facing up to seven years in jail.

Anthrax document, page 4; IoS investigation, page 5

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              218 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 21, 2001

ROBERT KILROY-SILK COLUMN

BYLINE: ROBERT KILROY-SILK

SECTION: COLUMNS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 195 words


ROMANO PRODI, president of the European Commission, says the terrorist attacks
on the US have opened the way for even closer political union. He particularly
wants to see a European Defence Force formed.

So, we will have Britain's armed forces under the command of the European
president. And when this happens, do you think that Britain will be able to
"stand shoulder to shoulder with the US"? Not a hope. While Prodi was demanding
integration, Belgium's foreign minister Louis Michel was accusing Blair of
grandstanding over Afghanistan and warning: "We won't follow Bush and Blair
blindfolded."

Actually, I don't want them to follow us anywhere. They never do. Belgium is the
country that is not co-operating with the FBI in arresting terrorist suspects.
It refused to supply us with specialist ammunition during the Falklands War. It
was the country we liberated. Do even the most fanatical of Europhobes really
want to hand over the control of our troops and our destiny and freedom of
action to this mealy-mouthed lot? The lesson of September 11 is not that we
should integrate further into Europe but that we must never surrender our
sovereignty.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              219 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

NUCLEAR PLANT TERROR THREAT

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 118 words


A SINN Fein leader has warned that the Sellafield nuclear waste plant in Cumbria
could be the target of a terrorist attack.

Caoimhghin O Caolain, the party's sole member of the Dublin parliament, spoke
out at a CND conference in Britain yesterday.

'The demand for the complete closure of Sellafield is growing as people realise
the threat posed to us all by an attack on the plant similar to that in the US
on September 11,' he said.

'Sellafield is a most serious and immediate danger to all the people of Ireland
and Britain - a potential Chernobyl in our midst.'

Mr O Caolain said that even if the World Trade Center attack had never happened,
Sellafield should still be closed down.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              220 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Sunday Mail

                            October 21, 2001, Sunday

SUNDAY MAIL OPINION: UNITED WE WILL BEAT TERRORISTS

SECTION: SUNDAY MAIL OPINION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 290 words


OUR Sunday Mail poll on the war against terrorism speaks volumes for the
character of the people of Scotland.

It shows the country cautiously divided on how America and Britain have
responded to the terrible events of September 11.

In our survey 48 per cent of those asked said the bombing of Afghanistan was not
an effective way to strike back at Osama Bin Laden.

Yet that does not show a nation which is weak or at odds with itself. It shows
that we are a country with a conscience, that we care about the possible loss of
yet more innocent lives.

That is why we welcome the news that American ground troops have entered the
battle against Bin Laden and the Taliban.

The 100 US Rangers who landed in Afghanistan to strike at a terrorist targets
will be the first of thousands of soldiers who are likely to be involved in a
ground conflict.

These are brave, professional soldiers taking the fight to the terrorists.

Though the stakes are high, the use of highly trained troops on the ground
minimises the risk to innocent Afghans of a prolonged bombing campaign.

Scots also made it clear that they will not support any attempt to assassinate
Bin Laden.

Instead, a massive majority want Bin Laden captured and brought to trial.

That may prove difficult but it will only be achieved if America, and soon
Britain, put troops into Afghanistan.

The survey also makes it clear that most Scots believe the conflict will lead to
terrorist attacks against Britain.

That is a genuine and realistic concern to us all.

But if it proves anything, it is that we must remain strong in the war against
terrorism.

It would be foolish to back down now and hope that the terrorists will not
strike again.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              221 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                October 21, 2001

Extra vigilance as anthrax fears grow.

BYLINE: Hugh Cadman (author email newsdesk@basingstokegazette.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 255 words

DATELINE: BASINGSTOKE



THE Royal Mail has tightened security following the anthrax outbreaks in the
United States.

The moves follow the recent incidents in America where more than a dozen people
have been affected by the suspected biological terror attacks.

One of the latest cases resulted in the exposure to anthrax spores of 20 workers
in the Washington office of a senator who had received a letter containing a
white powder.

Authorities in Britain have said that there is no "credible" risk of an anthrax
attack.

However, precautions have been put in place at mail depots throughout the
country, including Reading, which serves the Basingstoke area.

Don Veale, external relations officer for Consignia, Royal Mail's parent
company, said: "We are being extra vigilant. All of our staff are trained to
handle the mail and to be aware of anything they find suspect.

"We do have specific security arrangements for handling the mail and packages
but we can't reveal them for security reasons.

"So far there has not been a single case in the UK where a package has been
found to contain anthrax."

The Department of Health says there is no specific credible risk of an anthrax
attack in the UK but staff have reviewed plans for protecting the public and
dealing with emergencies.

All GPs have been contacted to remind them how to access the latest advice on
diagnosing anthrax and guidelines given for doctors dealing with any cases.

If a suspect package or letter is received, don't open it but call the local
police station.


LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              222 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 20, 2001, Saturday

SWIMMING: BRITS MISS OUT

SECTION: Pg. 44

LENGTH: 35 words


Britain will not send a team to the Edmonton and New York legs of the FINA World
Cup series in light of last month's terrorist attacks in the United States and
the ongoing military action in Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              223 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 20, 2001

Saturday review: Tunnel visions: Judith Chernaik on one powerful poem that was
too strong for London commuters

BYLINE: Judith Chernaik

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 3

LENGTH: 588 words


As founder and co-editor of the Poems on the Underground poster series, I had a
call from London Underground who were uneasy about a poem scheduled for display
in Tube trains in October and November. In the context of the recent terrorist
attacks, there was a feeling that passengers might take offence. Did we want to
reconsider?

The poem was Grass by Carl Sandburg, a protest against the carnage of war, once
a staple anthology piece in schools across America. We had chosen it to mark
Remembrance Day; in previous years we've displayed Owen's Anthem For Doomed
Youth and Sassoon's Everyone Sang, poems as well-loved in Britain as Grass is in
America. I defended the importance of poetry as witness to the times; the best
poetry, I suggested, records catastrophe but also offers consolation. Then I
re-read Grass, in the bold type of the poster:

It seemed clear that we couldn't have it on the Tube. It was too close to TV
images of bodies falling from the twin towers, the knowledge that thousands were
incinerated. With bio-terrorism no longer a remote fantasy, travellers
underground feel especially vulnerable. We phoned back the next day and asked
for the poem to be pulled.

Yet poetry has a unique power to particularize and contain horror. At
spontaneous memorial services in New York, people recited W.H. Auden's September
1st, 1939 (a poem Auden withdrew from his Collected Poems after his politics
shifted to the right): "Waves of anger and fear / Circulate over the bright /
And darkened lands of the earth, / Obsessing our private lives; / The
unmentionable odour of death / Offends the September night . . ."

Grass was published in 1918, when the slaughter at Ypres and Verdun was as fresh
to readers as the New York massacre is to us.

At Verdun there were 362,000 French and 337,000 German casualties; at Ypres a
quarter of a million died on each side. Though its references are European,
Sandburg's poem is distinctively American in its rhythm and language. I can
imagine generations of American schoolteachers explaining to youngsters just who
was fighting at Austerlitz and Waterloo and why, how many were killed at
Gettysburg and exactly what that terrible battle accomplished or failed to
accomplish. Later in the century teachers had a choice of examples: the London
blitz, the fire-bombing of Dresden, Hiroshima and Nagasaki, and now the World
Trade Centre - all signifying the horrific slaughter of one group of human
beings by another, on orders from above.

I hope the poem will go on display in November, for Sandburg represents a strand
of American letters which should be part of our dialogue with other cultures-
socialist, progressive, internationalist. Populist 20th-century writers in
America offered a savage indictment of corporate America's ruthless drive for
power and profit. Upton Sinclair, John Steinbeck, Richard Wright, Langston
Hughes, Lillian Hellman, Arthur Miller, were hugely popular with a mass
audience. Their writings seem almost dated now, because the blazing anger of
these home-grown social critics is mixed with love for the country and its
people, and confidence in its future. Especially at this time, it seems right to
look again at Sandburg's portrayal of a society which, with all its faults,
seemed once to offer unique possibilities for realising the best in human
nature.

The Tenth Edition of Poems on the Underground, containing over 300 poems
displayed on the Tube since 1986, is published by Cassell in November at pounds
14.99


LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              224 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 20, 2001

MP wants dockyard no-fly zone

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 285 words


A WESTCOUNTRY MP has called on Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon to impose an air
exclusion zone over Devonport Naval Base amid concerns that it could be a target
for a terrorist attack.

Colin Breed, Lib Dem MP for South East Cornwall, last night wrote to Mr Hoon
asking him to consider the move in the wake of the September 11 attacks in the
United States.

Osama bin Laden's al -Quaida network has hinted that it may carry out further
aircraft attacks, although the British Government says there is no specific
threat against this country.

Mr Breed has also asked for information about any extra precautions that the
Ministry of Defence has implemented to protect the base from any potential
attack launched from the River Tamar.

Devonport is the largest naval base in western Europe and is home to much of the
UK's fleet of nuclear-powered submarines, including HMS Trafalgar and HMS
Triumph, which have been involved in the cruise missile attacks against
terrorist sites in Afghanistan.

Mr Breed said that in the wake of the September 11 attacks and Britain's
involvement in the military action against al-Quaida and the Taliban regime,
Devonport might be considered a target. He said several constituents had raised
concerns with him about the issue, including students at Saltash College.

Mr Breed said that although Plymouth Airport was relatively close to the
dockyard, the relatively small number of flights meant that an exclusion zone
would not create major logistical problems.

He added: "I believe an air exclusion zone would be entirely appropriate in
current circumstances.

"It would cause minimal inconvenience to commercial or private aircraft flying
in and out of Plymouth airport."

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              225 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 19, 2001

5,000 jobs cut at Rolls-Royce;
 In Brief

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 94 words


BRITAIN: Aero engine giant RollsRoyce today announced 5,000 job losses in the
wake of the US terrorist attacks.

Around 3,800 jobs will be axed in the UK, with the cutback achieved by next
March.

The company, which has factories in Derby, Bristol, Hucknall and Ansty in the
Midlands, East Kilbride and Sunderland, said it expected difficult market
conditions for civil aerospace in 2002 and 2003.

"We are taking the necessary actions required to resize overheads and to align
cost and capacity with demand, " said chief executive John Rose.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              226 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Building Design

                                October 19, 2001

No respect for privacy

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 479 words


COMMENT BY SIMON DAVIES

As a privacy campaigner, I am concerned about the implications of surveillance.
The terrorist attacks on September 11 have - whether justified - provided an
opportunity for governments to institute a range of measures to invade our
privacy. That means more surveillance cameras, more security checks, and more
powerful computer systems to analyse our day-to-day activities and transactions.
All of these are bad news for privacy.

The growth in use of closed-circuit television has become one of the key
concerns for my colleagues. The proliferation of this technology in the UK has
achieved proportions that other countries find astonishing. The new generation
of cameras can be linked not only to communications networks, but also to facial
and behaviour-recognition software.

Such a trend would have been a political minefield 10 years ago. Now, it has
become first and foremost a technological problem. The architects of Britain's
CCTV network are preoccupied not with securing political support, but with the
technical challenge of integrating the cameras into the emerging
telecommunications networks.

Once viewed as a blunt tool of surveillance, CCTV is now seen as an integral
part of the urban environment. The fact that cameras have been placed on buses,
in trains, in lifts and even in phone booths has become quite ordinary.

Some observers believe this phenomenon is dramatically changing the nature of
cities. Stephen Graham, a lecturer in urban planning at Newcastle University,
describes visual surveillance as the "fifth utility", integrated with the urban
environment in much the same way as the electricity supply and the telephone
network was in the first half of the last century.

According to Graham, visual surveillance is becoming a fixed component in the
design of modern urban centres, new housing areas, public buildings and even the
road system. Soon, he says, people will expect spy technology to be engineered
into all forms of architecture and design. It will become a means of obtaining
information, and enhancing personal security and more effectively controlling
public spaces. Images will be seen as one more type of necessary data, and CCTV
will be the "tool kit" to obtain it.

Architects and urban planners are already factoring visual surveillance into the
core design of new towns and buildings. Modern city centres have clean, straight
lines to accommodate the line of vision of cameras.

Once a national grid is in place, the movements of individuals across the
country could, at least in theory, be merged with crime incident reporting to
determine likely suspects. At that point, we can expect that privacy may become
a forgotten right.

Simon Davies is a visiting fellow at the London School of Economics and director
of the human rights group Privacy International.




LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Magazine

                       Copyright 2001 CMP Information Ltd

                              227 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 19, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: SECURITY - YARD INVESTIGATING 24 TERROR SUSPECTS FOR FBI

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto And Arifa Akbar The Muslim cleric Abu Qatada, who is on a
Treasury list of alleged terror suspects, has had his assets frozen

SECTION: FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 553 words


UP TO 24 terror suspects are being investigated by Scotland Yard in connection
with the 11 September attacks.

Anti-terrorist officers are also following up more than 200 other lines of
inquiry linked to the terror networks behind the American atrocities.

The investigations are being run on behalf of America's Federal Bureau of
Investigation, which has passed on the details of suspects and bank accounts to
the British police.

Scotland Yard also disclosed yesterday that of the suspects already
investigated, three people in Britain allegedly had "strong links" to the
suicide hijackings and the support network of Osama bin Laden.

Commenting on the new suspects, Detective Chief Superintendent John Bunn, second
in command of the anti-terrorist branch, said: "Names that have come forward
from the FBI go into a couple of dozen."

He stressed that the 24, all of whom are believed to be living or staying in
Britain, were not necessarily suspects in the 11 September attacks and many had
weak links with the terrorists. They are thought to include British citizens who
were sitting next to some of the hijackers, possibly during flights to America
in the months before the terrorist attacks.

Det Chief Supt Bunn said the 24 names were "all being looked at and are the
subject of investigations" and that Scotland Yard would be tracing and assessing
them all.

He said that the three names with "very strong links" with terror attacks
included the Algerian pilot Lotfi Raissi, who is awaiting extradition to the
United States and is alleged to have trained some of the suicide hijackers.

Habib Zacarias Moussaoui, who lived in Brixton, south London, is alleged to have
been the "20th hijacker" and is already in custody in America.

A third man who was arrested in Birmingham and released is still being
investigated.

Since 11 September there have been more than 2,000 calls to Scotland Yard's
special anti-terrorist hotline. The Yard is also beefing up its secret,
alternative control centre in case its headquarters in London is destroyed by
terrorists.

Sir John Stevens, the Commissioner, said the need to do so had been impressed on
him by his recent visit to New York. The American police's command centre, which
was based in the one of the World Trade Centre towers, was destroyed.

Sir John said: "There is a need for us to look at our evacuation planning and we
are doing that in relation to some of the tall buildings in London."

Meanwhile, an investigation into a Muslim cleric who appears on a Treasury list
of terrorist suspects has allegedly revealed a pounds 180,000 bank balance
despite years of benefit claims he has made in Britain.

Sheikh Abu Qatada, who was last week listed by the Treasury among a group of
people suspected of "committing or providing material support for acts of
terrorism", had his assets frozen and is the subject of a Department of Social
Security investigation.

Mr Qatada, 40, had been claiming benefits ever since he came to Britain and
settled in Acton, west London, in 1993, when he was granted political asylum.
The Palestinian-born cleric is a convicted criminal in Jordan where, in his
absence, he was found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment in 1998 for his
alleged involvement in a series of explosions.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              228 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                                October 19, 2001

Braced to combat threat of anthrax .

BYLINE: Adam Postans (author email adam.postans@soton-echo.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 300 words

DATELINE: Southampton



HEALTH bosses in Hampshire are putting together contingency plans as fears grow
that a bio-terrorist attack will be launched on the UK.

The number of confirmed anthrax poisonings in the United States has risen to 12
and the latest scare came as a letter containing the potentially-fatal bacteria
was sent to a top politician.

Steps are being taken in Britain to ensure that if anthrax did reach this
country, an outbreak would be dealt with as efficiently as possible.

Dr Mike Barker, consultant for communicable diseases at Southampton General
Hospital, said meetings have already taken place to discuss the situation.

He said: "Obviously we have major plans in place to deal with major incidents.
They are designed to respond to whatever happens.

"Clearly, with the threat becoming more specific, in particular around
bio-terrorism, there are further things that we can put in place to ensure we
were in a better place to deal with it.

Dr Barker said while Southampton itself is not currently stockpiling drugs, this
is being done on a national scale.

He added that the hospital has reasonable supplies of the main antibiotics and
access to the Department of Health's stockpile if an emergency arose.

Dr Barker said: "There has been no credible threat made against this country.

"The relative risk from this is very low, but we are trying to get the plans in
place just in case." Acting police Sgt Matthew Gillooly said: "At the moment the
level of threat is low in Southampton. However, we are aware of the problems in
America and we are being very mindful to that.

Postal staff in Hampshire have been warned to be on the lookout for suspicious
packages following the anthrax panic which swept the country yesterday after the
alert at a Liverpool sorting office.



LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              229 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 18, 2001

Jobs axed;
 In Brief

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 82 words


BRITAIN: Anglo-Dutch software firm CMG is to axe 470 jobs as it battles against
worsening trading conditions in the UK, it said today.

The group said a number of its customers had been severely affected by the
September 11 terrorist attacks, and over recent weeks it had seen a significant
downturn in business to insurance, financial services and transport companies.
In order to cut costs by 20m a year, it is reducing staff numbers by around 10
per cent in the UK and Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              230 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 18, 2001

pounds 246m bill for Lloyd's names

BYLINE: Patrick Collinson

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 409 words


Some of Britain's wealthiest people will today receive bills for hundreds of
thousands of pounds as part of a pounds 770m cash call by insurer Lloyd's of
London to allow it to make payouts to victims of the US terrorist attacks.

Lloyd's said pounds 246m was required from "names" - the individuals who
underwrite the market - to cover its costs from the attacks, while pounds 524m
is being sought from corporate members brought in after the market's troubles of
the early 1990s. The average cash call will be pounds 44,000 spread between
thousands of unlimited liability names. However, some will avoid the cash call
altogether, while others will receive much larger demands.

"The average cash call figure is almost meaningless," said one name. "Some will
pay nothing while others may have huge amounts. If you were underwriting pounds
15m of business, then you might have a cash call for pounds 1m, although that
sort of figure is unlikely."

Lloyd's initially put its share of the insurance bill for the attacks at pounds
1.3bn. But as estimates for the industry-wide bill has spiralled to as high as
pounds 50bn, a revision to Lloyd's first estimate is now seen as inevitable.
Further cash calls to names are also inevitable.

The insurer has already covered pounds 89.8m worth of claims, including pounds
64.2m towards the value of the four aircraft involved.

Names were informed of the extent of the cash call at a meeting organised by the
Association of Lloyd's Members. But a spokesman for the association said names
were prepared for the cash demand, and that the amounts required were less than
many had feared. He added that, as premiums have since risen dramatically, many
names will be able to recover the cost of the cash call over the coming years.
"Next year is likely to be one of the best in Lloyd's history," said spokesman
Robert Miller.

Almost all of Lloyd's 108 syndicates will be affected by the call, with the
amount required from names depending on the exposure of their syndicates.

A Lloyd's spokesman said: "It's clearly a sizeable cash call but it's not as
large as those seen during the mid 1990s. We think it's manageable."

One of the biggest cash calls for Lloyd's names came after a series of natural
and man-made disasters, including Hurricane Andrew, Piper Alpha and liabilities
from US asbestos and pollution claims. As a result, names faced an average bill
of pounds 100,000 each.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              231 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 18, 2001, Thursday

TENNIS: WORLD OF WOE FOR TIM & GREG

BYLINE: Lee West

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 271 words

HIGHLIGHT: BLOW: Henman; FEARS: Sampras


BRITAIN'S hopes of securing their first Davis Cup World Group win for 12 years
have been dealt a major blow on the eve of the draw.

Tim Henman and Greg Rusedski are guaranteed a tough return to the final stages
of the competition in February after missing out on a seeding for today's 16
-nation draw in Zurich.

After the pair pulled off the sensational win in Ecuador last month, hopes were
high that the seedings committee would make them the last of the eight seeds.

But that place has gone to Germany on the basis of having five players in the
world's top 70.

Britain have not won in the World Group's final stages since Jeremy Bates and
Colin Dowdeswell's victory over Spain at Telford in 1989.

Instead of relatively comfortable clashes with the likes of the Czech Republic
or Slovakia, Britain could now face a daunting trip to holders Spain, Australia
or America.

And Henman and Rusedski have only a one-in-four chance of a definite home draw,
according to the complex permutations.

Of Britain's possible opponents, France and Germany would guarantee home ties. A
draw against Australia, Spain or America would require an overseas trip, and
Sweden, Russia and Brazil would go down to the luck of the draw.

In Stuttgart, Pete Sampras shrugged off terrorist fears to beat Stefan Koubek 6
-3 7-6 in the second round of the Masters Series yesterday.

Sampras admitted he nearly skipped his trip to Europe in the wake of the
terrorist attacks. He said. "I thought about it twice. Honestly, I wasn't sure
if I should come.

"But at the end of the day I felt it was best to be here."

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              232 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                               New Civil Engineer

                           October 18, 2001 Thursday

UK needs network of disaster planning offices, say experts

BYLINE: Damian Arnold

SECTION: ARTICLE; Archive; News

LENGTH: 281  words



HIGHLIGHT: LOCAL AUTHORITIES lack the resources to respond adequately to
disasters including terrorist attack and freak weather, emergency planners said
this week.


They said Britain must urgently review its disaster planning procedures and
develop a regional network of emergency planning offices.

These would operate in the geographical areas corresponding to regional
government offices, according to the Emergency Planning Society (EPS).

Regional offices would have a clear remit to co-ordinate emergency services and
other bodies involved in disaster response, says the EPS in its report to the
government's review of emergency planning (NCE 20 September).

They would be co-ordinated by a national emergency planning agency similar to
the United States' Federal Emergency Planning Agency which took control of the
response to last month's terrorist attack on the World Trade Center in New York.

'In England and Wales most incidents are handled at a local level. However with
fuel crises, flooding and foot and mouth outbreaks there is a need for
coordinated and timely support that covers large geographical areas and requires
expert help, ' it says.

Coventry University head of disaster management Les Mosely said the current
arrangements left Britain woefully under prepared to respond to a terrorist
attack on the scale of that on the World Trade Center. The country's emergency
planning budget of £14.7M, which was frozen five years ago, urgently needs
boosting, he added.

Current government plans would leave local authority emergency planning in
charge.

Legislation would create 'a duty of partnership' on all key agencies to work
together in an emergency with local authorities providing 'community
leadership'.

INFOPLUS The Emergency Planning Society's response to the government's emergency
planning review can be found on www. emergplansoc. org. uk

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Magazine

JOURNAL-CODE: New Construction Engineer


                            Copyright 2001 Emap Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           October 18, 2001, Thursday

GREED GOT US TO WHERE WE ARE NOW;
 VIEWPOINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 213 words


WE in the UK, as usual, follow the USA and are now at war. The terrorist attack
on America was the most horrendous and unbelievable happening and I deplore it.

I am extremely concerned about the actions taken and the ultimate deaths of many
innocent people. We have been told that it will be a long war. I believe the
events now taking place will spiral and get worse by the hour.

I query how will we in Britain be able to cope with the drain on our resources?
Our country was already in trouble before this happened.

Agricultural, steel, tourist and the air industries are in crisis, our NHS is
falling apart. How can we wage war and continue to spend millions on food and
medical aid for the Afghan people?

Our future is bleak. We should have held back and tried to stop the terrorists
in other ways. Someone said: "we should jaw jaw instead of war war".

We need to turn back to God. It has been said that Britain is no longer a
Christian country, if we were we would have followed Christ's example.

Many of the events would not have occurred. Pure greed has been the main cause
along with selfishness, self-indulgence and lack of compassion for our fellow
man.

All I can say is God help us.

M S Smith Dryburgh Avenue, Birchgrove, Cardif f

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              234 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 17, 2001

Britain on high alert for anthrax terror attack;
 War on Terrorism: WAVE OF SCARES: public urged not to panic but to be vigilant

BYLINE: Wayne Veysey PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 419 words


BRITAIN was today remaining on high alert for an anthrax terror attack as the
Government revealed it was preparing new guidance to deal with public concern
over the deadly bacteria.

Police urged the public not to panic yesterday despite the wave of anthrax
scares that swept the country.

Scotland Yard said there was no intelligence of a "specific threat" of a
biological or chemical attack but warned the public to be on their guard.

A spokeswoman said: "If people are suspicious of anything they have received in
the mail or by hand they should contact police.

"The police will advise and assist them. We have asked people to be vigilant."

The Department of Health last night confirmed that it was preparing new guidance
for NHS staff to help them deal with public concerns over anthrax.

A spokesman said that the guidance would be issued "shortly", but was unable to
give a date for its release.

It is expected to help medical workers recognise and treat the disease, as well
as allay the worries of members of the public frightened by the recent spate of
cases in the US.

There were a series of anthrax scares across the country yesterday which were
investigated by police and fire services. None was found to be a bacterial
attack.

The latest alert was last night at a building in Millbank, central London, which
includes BBC studios.

Scotland Yard said officers were called to reports of a suspicious substance in
the reception area but the immediate area had already been evacuated by the
building's occupants.

Also in London, 13 workers from the Stock Exchange were hosed down at a mobile
decontamination unit after mail room staff became suspicious about a package
yesterday morning. They were later taken to the Royal London Hospital in
Whitechapel, east London.

Seven staff at the Westminster offices of the Local Government Association were
quarantined inside two floors of the building in Smith Square yesterday after
the alarm had been raised over a suspicious package received in the post.

The suspect packages at the London Stock Exchange and Smith Square were both
tested and found to be harmless, a Scotland Yard spokesman said last night.

A similar scare hit a sorting office in Liverpool after a parcel containing
powder was discovered.

The 400-strong workforce was cleared from the building, and six people who came
into contact with the package were decontaminated and screened at hospital.

Tests later showed the substance was sand.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              235 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          October 17, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERRORISM: DOUGLAS FLIES THE FLAG FOR UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 107 words

HIGHLIGHT: GOLFING: Michael Douglas


HOLLYWOOD film star Michael Douglas yesterday urged fellow Americans to overcome
their fears and visit the UK.

The movie star was talking as he prepared to take part in the Dunhill Links
Championship at Carnoustie in Scotland.

The actor flew into Britain on Monday from his Manhattan home, where he has
witnessed first-hand the effects on New York of the terrorist attacks.

In an interview with STV's Scotland Today programme, he said: "We are all
nervous but I think you have to live your life."

"I will make any excuse to get up to Scotland. We have the best time, I love
playing here and enjoy the people a lot."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              236 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 17, 2001

Britain on alert in anthrax scares

SECTION: Pg. 8

LENGTH: 371 words


Britain remained on high alert for an anthrax terror attack today as the
Government revealed it was preparing new guidance to deal with public concern
over the deadly bacteria.

Scotland Yard said there was no intelligence of a "specific threat" of a
biological or chemical attack but warned the public to be on their guard.

A spokeswoman said: "If people are suspicious of anything they have received in
the mail or by hand they should contact police, who will advise and assist them.
We have asked people to

be vigilant."

The Department of Health is preparing new guidance for NHS staff to help them
deal with public concerns over anthrax.

There have been a series of anthrax scares across Britain, with the latest being
at a building in Millbank, central London, which includes BBC studios.

Police were called to reports of a suspicious substance in the reception area,
but the area had already been evacuated.

Yesterday's later editions of the Evening Times revealed a number of packages
"purporting to contain anthrax" were delivered to St Andrews University, where
Prince William is a student.

A package also arrived at the Fife Constabulary headquarters in Glenrothes.

But Assistant Chief Constable David Mellor said they were likely to be a hoaxes.

There was also a scare at the the London Stock Exchange when 13 workers were
hosed down at a mobile decontamination unit after mail room staff became
suspicious about a package. They were taken to hospital.

Since the anthrax scare began on October 4 in Florida, 13 people in America have
contracted anthrax or were exposed to anthrax spores. One has died.

And suspicious letters and non-stop hoaxes have spread anthrax anxiety around
the globe at the speed of mail.

An Israeli newspaper executive opened an envelope filled with white powder and a
note reading "Regards from Afghanistan".

Italy's Health Ministry set up a hotline, then appealed for

people to use it responsibly after receiving 520 calls on the first day, mostly
from citizens afraid of anthrax or smallpox.

In Germany, tests on a white powder found in the mailroom at German Chancellor
Gerhard Schroeder's offices had found no dangerous substance.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BUG ALERT: a specially suited New York policeman sprays a mailbox
following scares over letters containing anthrax

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              237 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                                October 17, 2001

Eddie ready to cut rates

SECTION: Pg. 20

LENGTH: 190 words


The Governor of the Bank of England Sir Edward George says the bank will not

hesitate to cut interest rates, currently 4.5%, again to prevent any further
economic weakening following the September 11

terror attacks.

He warned that the UK economy faced a "bumpy ride" but asserted that recession
will be avoided.

Sir Edward said that it was important not to exaggerate the

likely economic effect of the terrorist attacks, and predicted global growth
rates would recover over the next two to three years once the immediate impact
had been absorbed.

In Britain, he said, consumer confidence appeared to be holding up well although
business confidence had weakened, with manufacturing industry suffering more
than the service sector.

"No one can know quite how things will turn out in the present climate of
uncertainty. We cannot rule out a further slowdown here in the UK," Sir Edward
said.

He said the Bank's Monetary Policy Committee, which has already cut interest
rates six times this year - twice since September 11 - would be closely
monitoring the economic data to see if further action was needed.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              238 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 17, 2001

Cruel hoaxers feed on the public's fears

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.11

LENGTH: 300 words


THE Government has promised to come up with new public guidelines on anthrax
"shortly". The sooner the better before anthrax panic brings everything to a
halt.

While it is very sensible for people to be vigilant about the threat of
something nasty being delivered in the mail, it is also necessary to keep a
sense of proportion about the scale of any threat.

No evidence of any bacterial attack has been found in Britain.

Yesterday was the most jittery yet, with scares in London's Stock Exchange and
Liverpool's Royal Mail sorting office. In both cases, the packages that caused
the scare turned out to be harmless.

Some sick people are feeding on public fears by sending hoax packages. This
isn't just stupid and cruel; it's dangerous because it could make people
complacent about the possibility of a real bacterial terror attack.

Any hoaxer who is caught needs to discover that the rest of us don't see the
joke.

Best place to hold busker auditions is in the street

WHAT an excellent idea to make buskers take an audition before letting them
loose on the street.

Good street entertainers n and Gloucester enjoys its share of them n can make
shopping more enjoyable. Poor ones can be literally a pain.

The success of TV programmes like Popstars shows there's a lot of public
interest in watching hopeful entertainers being grilled -and sometimes roasted n
by a panel of experts.

Perhaps the busker auditions should be staged in public n that would be
entertaining in itself.

Police warnings won't work

THE police appear to be on a collision course with people living in Stroud and
the Forest of Dean over new radio masts. Dire warnings about safety "blackspots"
won't overcome people's health fears about these masts.

What people want is clearer advice on the health risks.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              239 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 17, 2001

Britain in the grip of panic over deadly bacteria

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 104 words





BRITAIN was today remaining on high alert for an anthrax terror attack.

There were a series of scares across the country yesterday, but none was found
to be a bacterial attack.  The latest alert was last night at a building in
Millbank, central London, which includes BBC studios.

Also in London, 13 workers from the Stock Exchange were hosed down at a mobile
decontamination unit after mail room staff became suspicious about a package
yesterday morning.  A similar scare hit a sorting office in Liverpool after a
parcel containing powder - later found to be sand - was discovered.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              240 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 17, 2001

Anthrax terror strikes Britain;
 WAR ON THE TALIBAN

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 530 words


BRITAIN went on anthrax alert yesterday as scares over suspect packages hit
several major cities.

Scenes such as these in Liverpool, showing experts in full contamination suits,
are likely to become familiar throughout the UK as emergency services prepare
for the worst.

On Merseyside a post office sorting depot was evacuated when a suspect package
was found, triggering a full-scale response from the authorities, while five
workers were tested for symptoms.

And 13 staff at the London Stock Exchange were taken to hospital for tests after
a package which arrived at the building caused concern.

These scares, and others such as one in Melksham, Wiltshire, were triggered by
genuine fears - although the Government has stressed there has been no evidence
of terrorism within the UK yet.

However, police are expecting a spate of malicious hoaxes which will waste the
valuable time of officers. A series of packages were sent to the university
attended by Prince William, which has been targeted by hoaxers before.

Growing panic in Britain is caused by the increasing number of cases in U.S.
where the FBI and CIA have been powerless to track down the perpetrators.

The attacks are being linked with the September 11 atrocities, and President
Bush has warned that Osama bin Laden's terror network may have opened up a
second front.

But some experts fear Iraq could be behind the outbreak, as Saddam Hussein is
believed to be stockpiling biological weapons of mass destruction. The latest
and youngest victim is a seven-month-old baby, the son of a television producer,
believed to have contracted the disease on a visit to the ABC television
studios, one of many media organisations to be targeted.

In the U.S. deadly spores have now been found in Florida, New York, Nevada and
the Congress building in Washington DC, raising fears of a terrorist attack
using biological weapons. Panic mounted across the country as U.S. Attorney
-General John Ashcroft described the attacks as "terrorism" for the first time
and admitted the health system could not cope.

There have been scares all around the world, with 55 people sent to hospital for
tests in France, and Government offices evacuated in Australia.

In Britain, 13 London Stock Exchange staff were decontaminated, given
antibiotics and taken to the Royal London hospital as a "precautionary measure"
after a suspect package was received at their offices in central London. It
later tested negative for anthrax.

Even as the Government tried to reassure people, a Minister was caught up in the
panic, after a suspicious package was sent to a Local Government Association HQ
in Westminster, London.

Emergency services were called to the building in Smith Square, where Local
Government Minister Nick Raynsford was due to meet council leaders.

The square is where a hoax anthrax "bomb" was sent to the HQ of the Department
of the Environment, Food and Rural Affairs shortly before September 11.

Scotland Yard urged the public not to panic, while stressing the need to remain
vigilant, and Health Secretary Alan Milburn said people should carry on with
their normal daily lives.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              241 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

BRITAIN ON ALERT FOR ANTHRAX ATTACKS;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 418 words


FEARS of an anthrax attack in Britain were growing today after one of America's
most powerful politicians was sent a letter laced with the deadly bacteria that
cause the disease.

Amid growing worldwide fears of biological attacks by terrorists, police
confirmed a letter containing anthrax bacteria was received yesterday in the
office of Senate majority leader Tom Daschle.

Just hours later three more people, including a seven-month old boy, had tested
positive for anthrax in the US.

The baby is the child of an ABC television news employee and had visited the
company's New York newsroom on September 28.

Officials said the boy was responding well to treatment for skin anthrax, not
the more dangerous inhaled variety.

In Florida, Ernesto Blanco has become the second employee at a publishing house
to test positive for inhaled anthrax. Photo editor Robert Stevens died of
inhalation anthrax on October 5.

A letter to a top Washington lawmaker has also tested positive.

At a news conference today New York Mayor Rudolph Giuliani urged caution, but
stressed that there was no need to panic. "There's nothing to be afraid of," he
said.

The Daschle letter and similar scares in other congressional offices prompted a
halt to all mail deliveries in the Capitol - the main building of the US
Congress.

The latest three cases have come after a letter was sent to Senator Daschle, who
was not in his office when the package was opened.

It was not immediately clear whether any of the 40 staff working in his office
had been exposed to the bacteria.

Like an earlier letter containing anthrax sent to NBC's New York headquarters,
the one sent to Senator Daschle was postmarked Trenton, New Jersey.

Fifteen people have now tested positive for the deadly disease and one has died.

President George Bush said a link to Osama bin Laden's Al Qaida terrorist
network - blamed for the September 11 terror attacks - could not be ruled out
although there was no hard evidence as yet.

In the Commons, Home Secretary David Blunkett outlined details of the
Government's emergency terrorism package, including measures to tighten the law
relating to nuclear, chemical and biological materials.

"There is no immediate intelligence pointing to a specific threat to the United
Kingdom but we remain alert, domestically as well as internationally," he told
MPs.

"If we fail now to take the necessary action to protect our people, future
generations will never forgive us."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              242 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

JOBS AXE LIKELY TO FALL ON CITY WORKERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 225 words


THE Coventry site of an aerospace equipment supplier is likely to be affected by
plans to axe hundreds of jobs nationwide.

Jobs at TRW Aeronautical Systems, in Alma Street, Hillfields, could be lost.

The Solihull-based company is to shed 1,100 jobs after a fall in demand because
of the terrorist attacks in the USA.

TRW employs 6,900 workers. A spokesman said about 670 of the jobs would go at
sites in Britain with the rest spread across offices and manufacturing sites
outside the UK.

The firm has several sites in the UK but it is not known how many jobs will be
lost at each.

Sites include Coventry with 100 workers, Wolverhampton with 800, Marston Green
with 200, Solihull with 130 and two in Hall Green with a combined total of
1,350.

TRW intends to achieve as many job losses as possible voluntarily, including
early retirement.

A company spokesman said: "While the full impact of the events of September 11
still unfolds, it is clear that sales and market predictions in the civil
aviation industry have been adversely affected.

Three hundred temporary employees will lose their jobs immediately and 70 per
cent of the remaining job cuts will be implemented by early 2002.

Telecoms group BT today said is to shut Concert - its joint venture with US
giant AT&T - in a move that will shed up to 2,300 jobs.

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              243 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

Credit Suisse lifts UK arm

BYLINE: By Carolyn Batt

SECTION: Pg. 30

LENGTH: 231 words

CREDIT Suisse Asset Management, an arm of Credit Suisse Group, yesterday boosted
its British operations with the acquisition of SLC Asset Management, a division
of Canada's Sun Life Financial.

The deal, which adds pounds 11 billion to the pounds 23 billion managed by CSAM
in Britain, also exposes the firm to more than 500 institutional clients and to
the UK's growing corporate pooled pension fund business.

SLC, which operates solely in Britain, will be rebranded under the CSAM name in
the first half of next year.

While the purchase price was not disclosed, CSAM deputy chairman Bob Parker
said: "Clearly the market circumstances in September and October 2001 are very
different from the circumstances 18 months to two years ago, and valuations are
also very different. Multiples are much cheaper."

Mr Parker said CSAM, which has $280 billion ( pounds 193 billion) under
management globally, would see a drop in profits during the current year but
added that the outlook was positive.

He said: "I might be sticking my neck out but we believe the bear market over
the past 18 months ended on September 21" - when markets bottomed following the
terrorist attacks.

He said he could not say how many jobs would be lost during the integration of
SLC.

The deal is subject to regulatory approvals and is expected to complete by the
end of November.
[PS]City: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              244 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

ENDURING FREEDOM: BRITAIN TURNED A BLIND EYE TO FANATICS;
 DAVID CAPITANCHIK IS A TERRORISM EXPERT AT ROBERT GORDON UNIVERSITY IN
ABERDEEN. HERE HE TELLS WHY BRITAIN IS NOT A PRIME TARGET

BYLINE: David Capitanchik

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 276 words


BRITAIN has escaped the worst of terror attacks from the Middle East because it
has turned a blind eye to extremist groups operating here.

And that, combined with better security due to IRA terrorism, has lessened our
chances of suffering a strike.

Britain is still way behind both the USA and Israel in terms of being a target
for bin Laden's organisation.

Despite protest from a number of countries, including Algeria, Israel, Eygpt and
India, in the past Britain has been a safe haven for fundamentalists.

Britain was certainly a very comfortable place for these people to be in.

We had complaints from all over the world about how they were using London to
conduct operations against other, often friendly, governments.

We gave them political asylum. We didn't really interfere with what they were
doing, provided they didn't do it against this country."

Britain has been especially important as a centre for fundraising and publishing
propaganda.

Access to off-shore banking and London's financial markets, also cited by France
as a source for terrorist cash, were particularly important.

Apparently, a lot was going on in mosques as well as all sorts of money
laundering.

Not much attention was paid as long as it wasn't harming British interests.

There was an understanding, almost a conspiracy, of leaving them alone as long
as they didn't cause us any problems.

It was never spelled out but that's why we were largely immune.

But the Government's new tough line on terrorism could spell the end for that
protection.

It may have changed now. Terrorism is something that we are now cracking down
on.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              245 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 16, 2001

UK remains on anthrax attack alert;

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words


OFFICIALS last night sought to play down fears of an anthrax attack in Britain
as it emerged that a letter containing the deadly bacteria had been sent to one
of America's most powerful politicians.

Amid growing worldwide fears of biological attacks by terrorists, police
confirmed a letter opened on Capitol Hill in the office of Senate majority
leader Tom Daschle had field-tested positive twice for anthrax.

President George Bush said a link to Osama bin Laden's al Qaida terrorist
network - blamed for the September 11 terror attacks - could not be ruled out
although there was no hard evidence as yet.

"We have no hard data on that yet, but it's clear that Mr bin Laden is a man who
is an evil man, " President Bush said.

"He and his spokesmen are openly bragging about how they hope to inflict more
pain on our country, so we're watching every piece of evidence. We're making
sure we connect any dots that we have to find out who's doing this, " he added.

In the Commons, Home Secretary David Blunkett outlined details of the
government's emergency terrorism package.

The package includes measures to tighten the law relating to nuclear, chemical
and biological materials.

"There is no immediate intelligence pointing to a specific threat to the United
Kingdom but we remain alert, domestically as well as internationally, " he told
MPs.

"If we fail now to take the necessary action to protect our people, future
generations will never forgive us."

Earlier, the Chief Medical Officer Professor Liam Donaldson disclosed that the
government had secured additional antibiotics and other equipment in preparation
against an anthrax attack in Britain.

"It is our responsibility to plan and plan well - and that is what we have been
doing over the last two weeks, " Professor Donaldson said.

"I think we are very well prepared. We have one of the best public health
systems in the world, " he added.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              246 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

IRELAND IS STOCKING UP ON TERROR VACCINES;
 MINISTER FEARS HORROR DISEASES IF BIN LADEN USES GERM WARFARE ON BRITAIN

BYLINE: Ann Mooney & Damien Lane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 458 words


THE government is stockpiling millions of vaccines against diseases such as the
Black Death in case Osama Bin Laden carries out his germ warfare threat against
Britain.

Health Minister Micheal Martin yesterday revealed his fears that deadly diseases
could spread to Ireland.

He is preparing for a possible germ warfare strike by building up reserves of
antibiotics.

Mr Martin said: "The advice I have been given is that Ireland is most at risk
from secondary infection from any bio-terrorism attack on the UK.

"We can't rule anything out at this stage. We are looking at all possible agents
and not just anthrax. We have to assess the threat from potential agents such as
the plague, haemhorragic fevers such as ebola as well as botulism and even
smallpox."

Mr Martin said the drugs would be used to combat horror diseases such as bubonic
plague, which wiped out 70 per cent of Europe's population in the Middle Ages.

Other antidotes for botulism, smallpox, lassa fever, tularaemia and even the
deadly ebola virus are also in stock. The main line of defence is penicillin, or
ciproxin for those allergic to penicillin.

Health experts yesterday warned that these diseases could spread here should
Britain come under a chemical or biological attack.

Dr Bill Hall, the director of the National Virus Reference Laboratory, is
heading an expert group examining the implications of a bio-terrorist attack.

He has advised that huge quantities of antibiotics be bought. Mr Martin said:
"We are doing everything we can at this stage.

"The medicines board is in the process of acquiring these drugs to combat the
very serious threat from secondary diseases.

"Incredible work has already been achieved by Dr Hall and his committee who are
now finalising a series of bio-terrorism protocols for the government.

"These will be issued to every Irish Accident &Emergency unit and will provide
for the detection, isolation, identification and treatment of suspected
outbreaks."

The minister revealed that Ireland has already placed major orders for strong
anti-biotics used to treat anthrax.

He is now also examining orders for other major treatments and vaccines to
combat secondary diseases that may occur.

Dr Hall, a consultant microbiologist at St Vincent's hospital in Dublin, said:
"I don't think Ireland would face a direct or overt attack but there is a
possibility of secondary infection.

"A person who contracted smallpox abroad would not know for 10 to 14 days that
they had been infected and could be in Ireland before they knew it."

Ireland is also awaiting fresh stocks of iodine in case of radio-active fall
-out from a nuclear attack or an accident at a power station such as Sellafield.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              247 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 16, 2001, Tuesday

IRELAND IS STOCKING UP ON TERROR VACCINES;
 MINISTER FEARS HORROR DISEASES IF BIN LADEN USES GERM WARFARE ON BRITAIN

BYLINE: Ann Mooney & Damien Lane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 468 words


THE government is stockpiling millions of vaccines against diseases such as the
Black Death in case Osama bin Laden carries out his germ warfare threat against
Britain.

Health Minister Micheal Martin yesterday revealed his fears that deadly diseases
could spread to Ireland.

He is preparing for a possible germ warfare strike by building up reserves of
antibiotics for viruses including botulism, ebola, smallpox and lassa fever.

Mr Martin said: "The advice I have been given is that Ireland is most at risk
from secondary infection from any bio-terrorism attack on the UK.

"We can't rule anything out at this stage. We are looking at all possible agents
and not just anthrax.

"We have to assess the threat from potential agents such as the plague,
haemhorragic fevers such as ebola as well as botulism and even smallpox."

Mr Martin said the drugs would be used to combat horror diseases such as bubonic
plague, which wiped out 70 per cent of Europe's population in the Middle Ages.

Other antidotes for botulism, smallpox, lassa fever, tularaemia and the ebola
virus are also in stock. The main line of defence is penicillin, or ciproxin for
those allergic to penicillin.

Health experts yesterday warned that these diseases could spread here should
Britain come under a chemical or biological attack.

Dr Bill Hall, the director of the National Virus Reference Laboratory, is
heading an expert group examining the implications of a bio-terrorist attack.

He has advised that huge quantities of antibiotics be bought. Mr Martin said:
"We are doing everything we can at this stage.

"The medicines board is in the process of acquiring these drugs to combat the
very serious threat from secondary diseases.

"Incredible work has already been achieved by Dr Hall and his committee who are
now finalising a series of bio-terrorism protocols for the government.

"These will be issued to every Irish Accident &Emergency unit and will provide
for the detection, isolation, identification and treatment of suspected
outbreaks."

The minister revealed that Ireland has already placed major orders for strong
anti-biotics used to treat anthrax.

He is now also examining orders for other major treatments and vaccines to
combat secondary diseases that may occur.

Dr Hall, a consultant microbiologist at St Vincent's hospital in Dublin, said:
"I don't think Ireland would face a direct or overt attack but there is a
possibility of secondary infection.

"A person who contracted smallpox abroad would not know for 10 to 14 days that
they had been infected and could be in Ireland before they knew it."

Ireland is also awaiting fresh stocks of iodine in case of radio-active fall
-out from a nuclear attack or an accident at a power station such as Sellafield.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              248 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 16, 2001

Tottenham MP's warning over war.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 285 words

DATELINE: Haringey



TOTTENHAM MaaP David Lammy has told Parliament during an emergency debate on the
war on terror that his constituency "offers lessons to the world".

In the House of Commons debate on Monday evening, Mr Lammy warned MPs that the
West should bear its international responsibilities in the wake of the armed
offensive on Afghanistan.

And he warned that Western forces needed to tread carefully when involved in
Middle Eastern politics.

He said: "Many of my constituents come from the most fragile nations on earth,
which are sometimes ravaged by violence and often have problems beyond human
comprehension.

"I want them to feel that they live in a country that has done right by their
part of the world."

Mr Lammy said that hundreds of Afghans living in Tottenham spoke to relatives in
the country everyday.

"That contact should not be underestimated, as those people could be a great
asset to our country.

"However, if the force being used is not justified, proportionate and well
directed, my constituents will know that too," he said.

In a passionate speech, Mr Lammy also took the opportunity to raise fears about
terrorist attacks in Britain in the aftermath of September 11.

He said: "Suddenly, our way of life is under attack. A plane is no longer a
dull, convenient way to get to the Spanish seaside.

"A trip on the Underground to London's West End suddenly carries more risks than
the possibility of getting one's wallet stolen.

"Foreign neighbours suddenly arouse suspicion in a way that makes us feel
ashamed."

Mr Lammy, the youngest member of parliament, revealed he received many letters
from youngsters all over Britain concerned about the threat of terrorism.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              249 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 16, 2001

Anthrax fear takes worldwide grip Deadly letter to leading senator

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 635 words


OFFICIALS last night sought to calm fears of an anthrax attack in Britain as it
emerged that a letter containing the deadly bacteria had been sent to one of
America's most powerful politicians.

Amid growing worldwide fears of biological attacks by terrorists, police
confirmed a letter opened on Capitol Hill in the office of Senate majority
leader Tom Daschle had tested positive for anthrax.

President George Bush said a link to Osama bin Laden's al Qaida terrorist
network n blamed for the September 11 terror attacks n could not be ruled out,
although there was no hard evidence.

"We have no hard data on that yet, but it's clear that Mr bin Laden is a man who
is an evil man," he said.

"He and his spokesmen are openly bragging about how they hope to inflict more
pain on our country, so we're watching every piece of evidence. We're making
sure we connect any dots that we have to find out who's doing this."

In the Commons, Home Secretary David Blunkett outlined details of the
Government's emergency terrorism package, including measures to tighten the law
relating to nuclear, chemical and biological materials.

"There is no immediate intelligence pointing to a specific threat to the United
Kingdom but we remain alert, domestically as well as internationally," he told
MPs. "If we fail now to take the necessary action to protect our people, future
generations will never forgive us."

Earlier, the Chief Medical Officer, Professor Liam Donaldson, disclosed that the
Government had secured additional antibiotics and other equipment in case of an
anthrax attack in Britain.

The number of people in the US who either have anthrax or have been exposed to
it has risen to 12. In Britain three people who worked in buildings in the US
where anthrax was detected are waiting for the results of tests.

There were a number of scares worldwide involving the disease.

A suspicious white powder was found in the postroom at German Chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's offices, and the US consulate in Melbourne, Australia, was evacuated
after a suspicious chemical was found in a letter. Suspicious envelopes were
also found at a Melbourne newspaper office. Other finds were reported in
Austria, Switzerland and France.

Meanwhile, American warplanes carried out round-the-clock attacks on terrorist
targets in Afghanistan yesterday, reinforcing President George W Bush's
declaration that "there's no negotiation" over Osama bin Laden.

Bush strongly rebuffed a Taliban offer to turn over prime suspect bin Laden to a
third country if the bombing stopped. "We know he's guilty. Turn him over," the
President demanded as the US military strikes in Afghanistan entered their
second week.

During a series of daylight raids yesterday, US jets struck at targets near
Kabul, at a bin Laden training camp at Tora-Bora, and near the village of Karam.

As the bombing of Afghanistan went on, the US Defence Department said it was
also dropping leaflets to assure Afghans that the action was aimed at ridding
their country of terrorists. Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld said the leaflet
drop was the first since bombing began on October 7.

"We're working to make clear to the Afghan people that we support them and we
want to help free their nation from the grip of the Taliban and their foreign
terrorist allies," Rumsfeld told a Pentagon news conference.

He took issue with reports by the Taliban government that the US bombing has
killed hundreds of civilians, describing the Taliban's death toll numbers as
"ridiculous".

He acknowledged that some Afghan civilians had been unintended casualties of the
US attacks, but offered no specific numbers.

ANTHRAX ALERT:Emergency workers remove suspicious envelopes from the mailroom of
the Herald and Weekly Times newspaper office in Melbourne, Australia

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              250 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 16, 2001

'Don't let terrorists destroy UK aviation'

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 112 words


THE British Chambers of Commerce today called on the business community to
ensure the September 11 terror attacks do not destroy the UK aviation industry.

The BCC said the success of the sector was "critical" to Britain's business
competitiveness.

Speaking at the Airport Operators Association (AOA) annual conference, BCC
president Anthony Goldstone said: "The UK aviation industry must and will
recover from the still resonant effects of September 11."

He stressed that British companies had a role to play in making sure it was
"business as usual", adding: "We cannot allow our economic prosperity and our
livelihoods to be held ransom by fear."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              251 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 15, 2001

Britain ready for anthrax attack;
 War on Terrorism: ANTIBIOTICS STOCKPILED: no immediate threat of bio-terrorism

BYLINE: Martha Linden; PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 460 words


THE Chief Medical Officer said today the Government was prepared for the
possibility of an anthrax attack.

Professor Liam Donaldson stressed that there was no evidence of an "immediate
threat or risk" but revealed antibiotics had been ordered in the past fortnight
in an effort to counter the disease.

"We don't have any evidence that there is any threat or risk but it is our
responsibility to plan and plan well and that is what we have been doing over
the last two weeks, " he said.

The Government had secured the "necessary stores" of antibiotics and other
equipment, he said, and pinpointed the need for detailed "scenario planning"
over the coming months and years in collaboration with the US.

The measures were in addition to guidance issued by the Government on how to
counter any possible threat from biological or chemical agents.

Asked if the Government was prepared for a biological attack, Prof Donaldson
said: "I think we are very well prepared. We have one of the best public health
systems in the world."

His remarks came as the number of people in the US who either have anthrax or
have been exposed to it rose to 12.

In Britain three people who worked in buildings in the US where anthrax was
detected are waiting for the results of tests.

US Health Secretary Tommy Thompson described the attacks an "act of terrorism".

Fears of biological attacks grew after spores were found on a police officer and
two lab technicians investigating an anthraxcontaminated letter sent to NBC
television's studios in New York.

A second NBC employee is also taking antibiotics after displaying possible
symptoms of the disease.

Mr Thompson said that he considered the anthrax cases in New York, Nevada and
Florida to be instances of bioterrorism.

But US Attorney General John Ashcroft said it was too early to say if there was
a direct link to Osama bin Laden, chief suspect in the devastating hijackings in
New York and Washington last month.

As panic grew in the US, several other media organisations reported potentially
infected mail, including the New York Times and CBS in Washington DC.

However, in Nevada officials said four people who may have come into contact
with a contaminated letter at a Microsoft office tested negative while results
were not known for two others.

Two of the people in Britain being tested currently worked at the newspaper
offices in Boca Raton, Florida, where five employees have already tested
positive for exposure to the disease following the death of a British-born
worker there.

The other was in New York where Erin O'Connor, 38, an assistant to NBC news
anchorman Tom Brokaw, was exposed after opening a letter addressed to her boss
and finding powder inside.

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              252 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: NEW STEPS TO TIGHTEN UP ON ANTI-TERROR LAWS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 473 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett will lay out his plans to tighten up Britain's
anti-terrorism legislation when Parliament returns from its summer break today.

He will brief MPs on his plans to protect Britain from Osama bin Laden and his
Al Qaida network.

Shortly before he speaks, Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will
continue efforts to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process - vital if Arab
governments are to continue the consensus for action against international
terrorism - by holding talks with the visiting Palestinian leader Yasser Arafat.

Mr Blunkett is expected to outline a multi-pronged strategy, including amending
the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to ensure that those suspected or convicted
of terrorist involvement cannot be considered for asylum in this country.

Other measures to be included in a catch-all Bill will give law enforcement
agencies full access to air and sea carriers' passenger and freight lists, and
make it an offence for financial institutions not to report suspicious
transactions.

In a move designed to protect Britain's Muslim community from the backlash to
the terror attacks, Mr Blunkett will confirm a widening of the law on incitement
to include religious as well as racial hatred.

He will also lay out plans for a second Bill which will provide for a complete
overhaul of the UK's extradition system, including plans for an EU-wide arrest
warrant.

Chancellor Gordon Brown will brief MPs on plans to clamp down on terrorist
financing.

Meanwhile, Mr Blair and Mr Straw will discuss with Mr Arafat the implications of
the air strikes for the wider region, as well as how the Middle East peace
process can be moved forward.

The US and Britain know that damping down, if not resolving, the Palestinian
-Israeli conflict is vital to maintaining a consensus against terrorism which
includes Arab and Muslim nations.

Mr Arafat is also due to have discussions with the Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr
George Carey, and Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy before flying to
Dublin to see Irish premier Bertie Ahern.

Although Mr Blair and Mr Straw will be keen to hear Mr Arafat's views, they are
likely to make plain to him the allies' determination to press on with the
military campaign until bin Laden and his organ- isation are beaten.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott said yesterday that new threats to Britons
and Americans from bin Laden's Al Qaida group amounted to an admission of guilt
for the September 11 terror attacks.

In a statement broadcast on Qatar's Al-Jazeera television, al Qaida spokesman
Sulaiman Abu Ghaith told US and British "infidels" to leave the Gulf or else
"fire will flare underneath their feet".

Mr Prescott said: "What I have heard ... is basically confirming, I think, the
guilt of bin Laden."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              253 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

BLUNKETT TIGHTENS UP LAWS TO GET TOUGH ON TERRORISTS;
 THE WAR ON TERRORISM CLAMP DOWN: David Blunket will be outlining his plans
today

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 240 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett was laying out his plans today to tighten up
Britain's anti-terrorism legislation in the aftermath of the September 11
attacks.

With the allied air strikes against Afghanistan's Taliban rulers entering a
second week, Mr Blunkett was using an emergency statement to MPs at Westminster
- just back from their summer break - to spell out his plans to protect Britain
from Osama bin Laden and his al Qaida network.

Mr Blunkett was expected to outline a multi-pronged strategy, including amending
the Immigration and Asylum Act of 1999 to ensure those suspected or convicted of
terrorist involvement cannot be considered for asylum in this country.

Other measures to be included in a catch-all Bill will give law enforcement
agencies full access to air and sea carriers' passenger and freight lists, and
make it an offence for financial institutions not to report suspicious
transactions.

In a move designed to protect Britain's Muslim community from the backlash to
the terror attacks, Mr Blunkett was confirming a widening of the law on
incitement to include religious as well as racial hatred.

He was also laying out plans for a second Bill which will provide for a complete
overhaul of the UK's extradition system, including plans for an EU -wide arrest
warrant.

In a separate statement, Chancellor Gordon Brown was due to brief MPs on plans
to clamp down on terrorist financing.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              254 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

ANDREW HAILS UK'S LINKS WITH NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 101 words


THE Duke of York last night began a threeday visit to New York in the wake of
the September 11 terror attack.

In his first official engagement of the trip, Andrew delivered the first
greeting at Sunday service of St Thomas Church, in Manhattan.

The prince is in New York to both pay tribute to the thousands lost in the World
Trade Centre and to open the UK With NY, a festival celebrating the links
between Britain and the city.

During his visit, the prince will also meet Mayor Rudolph Giuliani, amid
mounting speculation that the city's leader is to be granted an honorary
knighthood.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              255 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

NEW ANTHRAX FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 102 words


FEARS that terrorists might have launched a biological attack on the United
States were reinforced yesterday after it emerged that five more employees of a
tabloid newspaper had tested positive for exposure to anthrax.

The positive tests were on staff from the Boca Raton, Florida, office of
American Media Inc, where a British worker died of the disease.

Meanwhile, in Britain, the Department of Health confirmed that the Government
was conducting an ongoing review of Britain's ability to cope with chemical or
biological attacks in the wake of the September 11 atrocities in the United
States.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              256 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 15, 2001

Blunkett to lay out strategy on terror;

BYLINE: By John Deane and Joe Churcher

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 931 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett will lay out plans to tighten up anti-terrorism
legislation in the aftermath of the September 11 terror at-tacks when Parliament
returns from its summer break today.

With the allied air strikes against Afghanistan s Taliban rulers entering a
second week, Mr Blunkett will brief MPs on his plans to protect Britain from
Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaida network in an emergency statement to the
Commons.

Shortly before he speaks, Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw will continue efforts to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process -
vital if Arab governments are to continue the consensus for action against
international terrorism - by holding talks with the visiting Palestin-ian
leader, Yasser Arafat.

With no signs of a let-up in the allied aerial bombardment, CNN television last
night reported antiaircraft fire over the Afghan capital, Kabul, as US aircraft
again flew over the city.

In his statement today, Mr Blunkett is expected to outline a multi-pronged
strategy, including amending the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to ensure those
suspected or convicted of terrorist involvement cannot be considered for asylum
in the UK.

Other measures to be includ-ed in a catch-all bill will give law enforcement
agencies full ac-cess to air and sea carriers passenger and freight lists and
make it an offence for financial institutions not to report suspicious
transactions.

In a move designed to protect Britain s Muslim community from the backlash after
the terror attacks, Mr Blunkett will confirm a widening of the law on incitement
to include religious as well as racial hatred.

He will also lay out plans for a second bill which will provide for a complete
overhaul of the UK s extradition system, including plans for an EU-wide arrest
warrant.

In a separate statement, Chancellor Gordon Brown will brief MPs on plans to
clamp down on terrorist financing.

Meanwhile, Mr Blair and Mr Straw will discuss with Mr Arafat the implications of
the air strikes for the wider region, as well as how the Middle East peace
process can be moved forward.

The US and Britain know that damping down - if not resolving - the
Palestinian-Israeli conflict is vital to maintaining a consensus against
terrorism which includes Arab and Muslim nations.

Mr Arafat is also due to have discussions with the archbishop of Canterbury, Dr
George Carey, and Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy, before flying to
Dublin to see Taoiseach Bertie Ahern.

Although Mr Blair and Mr Straw will be keen to hear Mr Arafat s views, they are
likely to make plain to him the allies determination to press on with the
military campaign until bin Laden and al-Qaida are beaten.

Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott yesterday said new threats to Britons and
Amer-icans from al-Qaida amounted to an admission of guilt for the September 11
attacks.

In a statement broadcast on Qatar s Al-Jazeera television, alQaida spokesman
Sulaiman Abu Ghaith told US and British infidels to leave the Gulf or fire will
flare underneath their feet .

Mr Prescott told BBC1 s Breakfast with Frost programme: What I have heard about
the message given. . . is basically confirming, I think, the guilt of bin Laden,
who has made it clear that he wants to continue these actions.

The leader of the Commons, Robin Cook, a former foreign secretary, warned that
while military action would not continue longer than necessary, it had to
produce a concrete result.

But it is important, vital, that we see this through to the finish and we do not
finish without having brought Osama bin Laden to justice and disrupted his
terrorist network, Mr Cook told BBC1 s On the Record.

Mr Cook, who will today attend another meeting of the government s war cabinet
at Downing Street, cautioned that America and its allies would be wrong to
extend the military action against the Taliban to other countries in the region.

Some hawks in Washington are believed to favour following up the action against
bin Laden s Taliban protectors with an attack aimed at unseating Iraqi leader
Saddam Hussein.

But Mr Cook said the allies were not secretly plotting to attack anyone other
than the Taliban.

And I would say myself - at the present time, it would be quite wrong for us to
open another front, Mr Cook said.

The allies were warned by United Nations human rights commissioner Mary Robinson
that they could preside over the deaths from starvation of millions of people in
Afghanistan unless they paused the bombing campaign to allow a huge influx of
food aid.

The Republic s former president said: Are we going to preside over deaths from
starvation of hundreds of thousands, maybe millions of people this winter,
because we didn t use the window of opportunity before winter closes? That is
the problem.

Last n ight, the Taliban appear-ed to be showing some signs of the pressure it
is under.

With bombs reported to have been dropped on the regime s front line facing the
opposition Northern Alliance, the Taliban suggested that bin Laden could be
handed to a neutral country if sufficient evidence was provided.

Afghan deputy prime minister Haji Abdul Kabir told reporters the Taliban would
require evidence that bin Laden was be-hind the September 11 attacks.

Mr Kabir said that if the allied bombing campaign ceased and the Taliban was
given evidence of bin Laden s guilt, the Taliban would be ready to hand him over
to a third country - but one that would never come under pressure from the
United States .

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              257 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

300 JOBS MAY FACE THE AXE;
 AEROSPACE FIRM CUTS BACK

BYLINE: Neil Hodgson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 329 words


THREE hundred Merseyside jobs were under threat this afternoon.

Midlands-based Aerospace company TRW Aeronautical Systems announced 1,100
redundancies.

The company said the fall in demand after last month's terrorist attacks in
America had led to the job losses.

TRW bought what was Lucas Aerospace two years ago, including the Huyton plant
which makes machine parts for two of TRW's factories.

However, a group spokeswoman was unable to confirm how many Huyton staff could
be affected.

"It is too early to tell at this stage. We have just commenced discussions with
the unions."

The Solihull-based firm said about 670 of the jobs would go at its sites in
Britain.

A spokesman for the company, which currently employs 6,900 workers, said the
remaining job losses would be spread across the firm's offices and manufacturing
sites outside the UK.

TRW has six sites in the West Midlands at Wolverhampton, Coventry, Solihull,
Marston Green and Hall Green, Birmingham.

The company's other UK sites are located in Huyton, Hemel Hempstead and in
Belfast.

The spokesman added: "While the full impact of the events of September 11 still
unfolds, it is clear that sales and market predictions in the civil aviation
industry have been adversely affected.

"As a result of the decreased demand for its civil aviation equipment, cost
reduction measures are being implemented to achieve an overall reduction in
employment costs of 16%.

"Some of this will be achieved through reduced overtime, but it will mean a
reduction in the number of permanent and temporary employees by approximately
1,100."

Three hundred temporary employees will lose their jobs immediately and 70% of
the remaining job cuts will be implemented by early 2002.

Ken Maciver, TRW's chief executive, said: "The coming months will be a very
difficult time for our company as we make the necessary adjustments to remain
competitive in a rapidly-changing environment."

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              258 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 15, 2001

Britons caught

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 446 words


Killer bug outbreaks branded acts of terrorism



THREE Britons were awaiting the results of anthrax tests today as the US
outbreaks were branded acts of bio-terrorism.

The three all worked in America in buildings where anthrax was detected.  Two
worked at the newspaper offices in Florida, where five employees have already
tested positive for exposure to the disease following the death of a
British-born worker there.

The other was in New York where Erin O'Connor, 38, an assistant to NBC news
anchorman Tom Brokaw, was exposed after opening a letter addressed to her boss
and finding a powdery substance.  US Health Secretary Tommy Thompson said the
anthrax cases were instances of bio-terrorism.

He said: It certainly is an act of terrorism to send anthrax through the mail.''
And Attorney General John Ashcroft said it was too early to link the attacks to
suspected terror mastermind Osama bin Laden, but added: We should consider this
potential that it is linked.'' In Britain, more than 200 people were evacuated
from Canterbury Cathedral yesterday after a worker said he saw a man dropping a
white powder in one of the chapels.

Police said tests are being carried out on samples of the powder.  The
government has said it is conducting an ongoing review of Britain's ability to
cope with chemical or biological attacks in the wake of the September 11
atrocities in the US.

The Department of Health said it contacted all GPs last week to remind them how
to access latest advice on diagnosing anthrax.  The Public Health Laboratory
Service has also produced new guidelines for doctors dealing with any anthrax
case.


In America, fears of biological attack grew after spores were found on a police
officer and two lab technicians investigating an anthrax-contaminated letter
sent to NBC television's New York studios.  The new cases brought to 12 the
number of people in the US who either have anthrax or have been exposed to it.
A second NBC employee is also taking antibiotics after displaying possible
symptoms of the disease.

As panic grows in the US, more media organisations are reporting potentially
infected mail, including the New York Times and CBS in Washington DC.  However,
officials said four people who may have come into contact with a contaminated
letter at a Microsoft office in Nevada tested negative.  Panic over anthrax is
spreading around the world.  In Hawaii, hazardous-materials teams were called to
Lihue Airport after passengers on a flight from Los Angeles discovered a white
powder on their luggage after they arrived. Tests were being conducted on the
powder.




LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: CLEAN-UP . . . a biohazard container is taken from Florida newspaper
offices

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              259 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 15, 2001

New laws to combat terror attacks

BYLINE: IAN CRAIG

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 173 words


Anthrax terror alert: Pgs 4 & 5



TOUGH new measures against terrorism were being announced in the Commons today.
As MPs returned for a new session Home Secretary David Blunkett was outlining
plans to tighten up Britain's asylum laws following the September 11 US attacks.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was also promising police powers to monitor suspicious
bank accounts.  At the same time, another bank account in London has been
frozen, in the name of a man listed by the FBI as having terrorist links.

Mr Blunkett was expected to amend asylum laws to ensure those suspected or
convicted of terrorism cannot be considered for asylum.  Other measures will
give law enforcement agencies full access to air and sea carriers' passenger and
freight lists.

To protect Britain's Muslims from any backlash, the law on incitement was due to
be extended to include religious hatred.  He was also announcing plans for a
second Bill which will provide for a complete overhaul of the UK's extradition
system.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              260 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 15, 2001, Monday

BLUNKETT PLANS TOUGHER LAWS TO FIGHT TERRORISM;
 PARLIAMENT: BLAIR TO HOLD TALKS WITH YASSER ARAFAT

BYLINE: John Deane & Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 311 words


HOME Secretary David Blunkett will lay out his plans to tighten up Britain's
anti-terrorism legislation in the aftermath of the September 11 terror attacks
when Parliament returns from its summer break today.

With the allied air strikes against Afghanistan's Taliban rulers entering a
second week, Mr Blunkett will brief MPs on his plans to protect Britain from
Osama bin Laden and his AlQaeda network in an emergency statement to the House
of Commons.

Shortly before he speaks, Prime Minister Tony Blair and Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw will continue efforts to reinvigorate the Middle East peace process -
vital if Arab governments are to continue the consensus for action against
international terrorism - by holding talks with the visiting Palestinian leader
Yasser Arafat.

CNN television last night reported anti-aircraft fire over the Afghan capital,
Kabul, as US aircraft again flew over the city.

In his statement today, Mr Blunkett is expected to outline a multi-pronged
strategy, including amending the Immigration and Asylum Act 1999 to ensure those
suspected or convicted of terrorist involvement cannot be considered for asylum
in Britain.

Other measures will give law enforcement agencies full access to air and sea
carriers' passenger and freight lists, and make it an offence for financial
institutions not to report suspicious transactions.

In a move designed to protect Britain's Muslim community from the backlash to
the terror attacks, Mr Blunkett will confirm a widening of the law on incitement
to include religious as well as racial hatred.

Last night US President George W Bush rejected the latest Taliban offer to hand
over bin Laden. Deputy Prime Minister Haji Abdul Kabir had said bin Laden could
be handed to a neutral country if sufficient evidence were provided he was
behind the September 11 attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              261 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

HAD THE HIT. BOUGHT THE HOUSE. NOW FOR A WARHOL...

BYLINE: James Morrison 'Orange Marilyn', above, by Andy Warhol, one of Robbie
Williams's favourite artists; 'Self-Portrait with Monkey', by Frida Kahlo, left,
owned by Madonna JONATHAN EVANS; 'E.O.W.'s Reclining Head', left, by Frank;
Auerbach, which is owned by David Bowie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 703 words


So much for sex and drugs. The biggest names in the world of rock'n'roll are
forging a new identity as serious collectors of art. Stars spanning the
generations from Rod Stewart to Geri Halliwell are ever more familiar faces on
the fine-art circuit, a trend greeted with a mixture of bafflement and wry
humour by Britain's top dealers and gallery owners.

Casting aside his ageing hell-raiser image, Stewart has been scouring galleries
in Mayfair on the lookout for Pre-Raphaelite pictures, while the former Spice
Girl has been spotted eyeing contemporary prints at fairs in Hoxton, showcase
for fashionable concept artists such as Tracey Emin and Gilbert and George.
Robbie Williams has reportedly bought several Andy Warhols from the disgraced
Tory peer Lord Archer.

Meanwhile, as the UK art markets adjust to the absence of serious American
collectors in the wake of the US terror attacks, they have found an unlikely
saviour in the shape of Madonna.

She and Robbie Williams are tipped for a neck-and-neck race for the Christmas
number one slot, but the American superstar is winning hands-down when it comes
to the size of her art gallery. The 43-year-old singer already has some 300
works to her name, and is now looking for contemporary pieces by the likes of
Damien Hirst and the Chapman brothers to furnish the West End house she bought
last year. With pieces by well-known modern artists fetching six-figure sums and
more, dealers agree that the celebrity interest has the potential to exert a
huge impact on a notoriously fickle art market. Hirst's Hymn, a giant bronze
anatomical statue, was recently sold to Charles Saatchi for a reported pounds
1m.

Bernard Jacobson, the London gallery-owner whose high-profile clients include
rock star turned painter and collector David Bowie, and John Cleese, says fine
art has become the latest in a long line of celebrity status symbols: a badge of
bourgeois sophistication and respectability.

"The stars who are into buying art include obvious younger ones such as Damon
Albarn, who have an art school background, but a lot of them are much older," he
said. "I know that Rod Stewart has been looking at pre-Raphaelite paintings, and
Mick Jagger has been getting into art. What's so strange is that, as far as I
know, many of these people never used to be interested in art at all.

"Rock stars seem to start getting into art when they get to a quieter stage in
their careers. They seem to start buying when they have made the money and they
are no longer having to work all the time."

Mr Jacobson believes that, though difficult to quantify, "celebrity interest"
can have a definite impact on the future selling power of individual artists.

"If someone like Madonna buys a piece by an emerging artist, she will probably
be doing them a favour," he said. "But it can work both ways. If certain stars
were to buy something you'd done, people might say: 'Oh no, I thought he was a
serious artist, but now I'm not so sure'."

Madonna, who will present the Turner Prize later this year, has long been ranked
alongside more "serious" celebrity art-lovers such as Bowie, Bryan Ferry and Sir
Elton John. Her personal curator, Darlene K Lutz, who last week brought over the
disco diva's favourite painting, Self- Portrait with Monkey by Frida Kahlo, so
it could take its place in Tate Modern's Surrealism exhibition, said that she
was currently looking to broaden her collection, which until now has been
dominated by earlier 20th-century artists such as Picasso, Dali and Man Ray.

Meredith Etherington-Smith, editor of Art Review magazine, believes there is a
simple explanation behind the celebrity art-buying. She says that fine art is
becoming a must-have designer fashion accessory, in much the same vein as luxury
yachts and fast cars.

"First you buy the fabulous car, then you buy the expensive house, then the
fabulous flat-screen plasma TV, and finally you run out of stuff to buy," she
said. "If they were simply trying to be really splashy, they would be forking
out for Old Masters, rather than things like Andy Warhol. Rather than
"one-upping", buying art has become just like shopping."

Madonna and Me, LifeEtc, page 1

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              262 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 14, 2001

Why we need a Festival of Britain again

BYLINE: Frank Barrett

SECTION: Pg. 93

LENGTH: 411 words



EVEN before the terrible events September 11, the British tourist industry knew
that due to foot-and-mouth and the growing worldwide recession it would be
facing a hard year in 2001.

Now the strikes on Afghanistan would appear to have destroyed any immediate
prospects for a recovery.

The extent of the gloom can be gauged by the fact that the great and the good of
the UK tourism industry gathered last week for a session of meetings under the
auspices of Tourism Minister Kim Howells and Culture Secretary Tessa Jowell.

Their conclusion? They decided to set up a Tourism Alliance to provide a
co-ordinated voice' for the tourist industry. What Britain really wants is not a
new voice for the tourist industry but more tourists. Getting out and doing
something to attract visitors is what is required.

So one has to admire the pluck of the organisers of the UKwithNY event a
two-week festival designed 'share the most compelling and captivating aspects of
21st Century Britain' with Manhattan residents which kicks off in New York
today.

New York, you might have thought, has other things on its mind than celebrating
UK culture, yet the event has the support of Mayor Rudolph Giuliani and the
business community.

Planned for three years, it is claimed to be the largest international
initiative launched in New York City for almost 20 years. The festival will
feature some 200 concerts, performances and exhibitions. It will be launched
with a concert by the band of the Coldstream Guards, who won the hearts of the
American people by playing the Star Spangled Banner outside Buckingham Palace
two days after the terrorist attacks.

'It reflects the solidarity between the UK and New York that has become all the
more vital since September 11,' says UKwithNY chairman Philip Warner.

The event is the sort of positive promotion that Britain will need if it hopes
to recover its tourist business.

The new Tourism Alliance has said its priority will be quality, training and
marketing. But these aren't the reasons why Americans are avoiding Britain: they
have safety fears. Next year, hopefully, these worries will have subsided. Then
Britain needs to be ready with the biggest promotion in its tourist history. If
we can stage a major cultural festival in New York, why not stage one here next
year? A modern Festival of Britain that everyone will want to come to from all
over the world.

We should start planning now.


LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SOLIDARITY: COLDSTREAM GUARDS' SALUTE TO AMERICAN VICTIMS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              263 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                October 14, 2001

Business & Media: Business: Blow to Nats as loan offer is pulled

BYLINE: Nick Mathiason

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 397 words


THE PRIVATISATION of Britain's air traffic control system has run into major
difficulties only three months after the Government engineered the sale.

Banks which have lent a consortium of airlines pounds 1.5 billion to buy a 46
per cent share in National Air Traffic System (Nats) last week withdrew a pounds
750 million syndicated loan offer because of falling business in the aviation
industry.

The news will cause a big headache for Abbey National, Bank of America, Barclays
Capital and Halifax which lent money to the consortium, the Airlines Group
(TAG). 'Our margins on the deal have taken a knock,' said one banking source.
'We will only go back to the City when conditions improve. When that is, I
couldn't say.'

The Airlines Group, which includes BA, Virgin, EasyJet and Airtours, is already
embroiled in a row over plans to accelerate redundancies in the wake of the
terrorist attacks in the US. This revelation, in a leaked memo by TAG chief
executive Richard Everitt, raised concerns over flight safety.

This week the air controller' unions will tell TAG managers they must withdraw
the threat of mass redundancies and maintain capital expenditure. The unions
believe TAG will use the terrorist attacks as an excuse to cut services.

Transatlantic traffic has dropped and airlines are cutting capacity, laying off
staff and facing bankruptcies. Around 40 per cent of Nats' pounds 595m annual
income comes from the United States, and it could fall by up to a fifth during
the year.

A spokesman for the Institution of Professionals, Managers and Specialists said:
'Nats is in a precarious position, with debts three to four times greater than
before privatisation. If there is any threat to planned investments and
improvements to the system, we call on the Government to take urgent action to
assist Nats.'

TAG has hinted that the building of a pounds 60m air traffic control centre in
Prestwick, in South-west Scotland, could be delayed for up to two years as a
result of the US attacks.

The sale of part of Nats has left the Government with a 49 per cent stake. TAG
holds 46 per cent and the staff have 5 per cent.

The Government's 'golden share' gives it the power to reject TAG's business
plans. But Ministers will want to ensure that TAG's plans are passed without
contention to avoid further public-private partnership rows.


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              264 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 14, 2001

TERROR CHIEF: WE WILL BURN BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 547 words


OSAMA Bin Laden last night threatened the UK with devastating terrorist attacks
unless Tony Blair pulls British troops out of the Gulf.

In the most explicit threat to date against the British Isles, he promised to
make "the land burn under their feet".

Bin Laden's henchman Sulaiman Bu Ghaith singled out Tony Blair for personal
threats, branding him the "head of all the criminals" and vowing that he will
not escape punishment for his part in bombing Afghanistan.

He also warned Westerners to avoid air travel and flee homes in high-rise
buildings or face oblivion at the hands of the terrorists.

The naked threat to repeat the atrocities of September 11 came as the Western
allies launched another intensive wave of attacks against Bin Laden's networks
in Afghanistan. At least four cities were attacked. Four large explosions shook
the capital Kabul after blasts near the airport.

In a chilling statement on Arab al-Jazeera TV the al-Qaeda spokesman attempted
to spark a race war by singling out British and American Moslems for special
condemnation.

Mr Bu Ghaith warned "all those who oppose U.S. policy", but particularly Moslems
to "avoid traveling by air or living in high buildings or towers."

Vowing to hit at British and American interests around the globe, he told the US
and British Governments to leave the Arabian Peninsula because the "land will
burn with fire under their feet, God willing".

Bin Laden is on record as saying that he began his antiWestern terror campaign
to drive out US troops stationed in his home country of Saudi Arabia after the
Gulf War.

Bu Ghaith also attacked US President George W Bush, his father and his closest
allies - including the Prime Minister.

He said: "The organization of Al-Qaeda announces that Bush the father, and Bush
the son, and in between them, Clinton, Blair and Sharon are at the head of all
the criminals, the Zionists and the crusaders, who have committed the worst
practices and greatest atrocities against the Muslim nation, before and now.

"Millions of Moslem men, women and children have been killed without committing
any sins. The blood of those will not be lost in vain, God willing, when we get
revenge from these criminals. They are not going to escape punishment."

The Bush administration last night dismissed the outburst as "propaganda".

Bin Laden believes American spies have infiltrated the Taliban and are trying to
lead US special forces to his secret hideaway, one of his sons claimed last
night.

Abdullah Laden, one of 42 children of the Al Qaeda leader, told reporters his
father is constantly looking over his shoulder as he lives in fear of being
tracked down by the US military.

But the 18-year-old son said his father was adamant he could still evade capture
by fleeing to the hills with his 300-strong group of trusted commando
bodyguards.

Speaking from a secure compound in Pakistan, and shielded by Taliban officials,
Abdullah Laden added his "dad" will outwit the Americans, who he suspects have
been tailing him for years.

He claimed his father, who refuses to wear battery watches in case US
surveillance experts can pick up his location, had no idea how to work computers
and that he was a "traditional man and a loving dad".

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              265 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

THE WEST AT WAR: THE CAMPAIGN: A KNIGHTHOOD FOR NY'S RUDI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 133 words


NEW YORK Mayor Rudolph Giuliani is set to receive an honorary knighthood from
the Queen for the work he did after the terror attacks.

Tony Blair has recommended that she makes the award for the compassion he showed
to British victims and his determination to get New York up and running again.

The 57-year-old Mayor will be invited to Buckingham Palace to receive the award
personally.

A Palace official said last night: "The Queen was grateful for his support for
Britons bereaved by the tragedy and feels that this will also be a gesture of
solidarity between America and Britain."

-TENNIS star Serena Williams has pulled out of next week's WTA tournament in
Zurich, Switzerland, because she wants to stay with her family in the wake of US
military strikes on Afghanistan.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              266 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Mercury

                            October 14, 2001, Sunday

WAR PROTESTS

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 209 words


THOUSANDS of people turned out yesterday at anti-war demonstrations in Britain
and around the world.

Campaigners held rallies in London and Glasgow in the largest protests yet over
the military action being carried out by the US and Britain in Afghanistan.

Police in the capital estimated 20,000 people had joined the anti-war march from
Speaker's Corner, in Hyde Park, to Trafalgar Square. Among them were a number of
British Muslims, who held prayers for peace on mats laid down on the grass.

The protesters carried placards declaring: 'No to war!' and 'Stop This Bloody
War', and blew whistles and banged on drums.

CND vice-chairman Kate Hudson said: 'We are sending a very clear message to Mr
Blair and President Bush to say that we think they should stop the bombing now.'

In Scotland, Labour MP George Galloway told a gathering of 1,500 people in
Glasgow city centre: 'To follow a crime of massacre with another crime of
massacre is equally unconscionable and I believe it is also a terrorist act.'

Comparing the military might of the coalition with Afghanistan, Mr Galloway
said: 'It is like putting Mike Tyson in the ring with a small child and for
Tyson then to savagely beat it round after round for 15 rounds.'

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              267 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 13, 2001

VALUES PLUMMET 15 PER CENT AS TERROR ATTACKS BURST PROPERTY BUBBLE; HOUSE PRICES
TUMBLE

BYLINE: BY SARAH O'GRADY PROPERTY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 374 words


A CRISIS in the property market is forcing developers and estate agents to slash
house values by up to 15 per cent in the wake of the terror attacks on the
United States.

Halifax, Britain's biggest mortgage lender, said the market had been teetering
on the edge of an economic slowdown and that the US atrocities had now "pushed
it over".

After two years of surging prices it is now a buyer's market - particularly at
the top end, experts said yesterday. A GBP 2million mansion in Surrey has been
reduced by GBP 300,000 as fears of smaller bonuses hit the City bankers who
would usually buy a property such as this.

Saxon Brettell, director of finance firm Cambridge Econometrics, said: "The
property bubble has finally burst and estate agents used to massive bonuses are
pricing property more realistically in a bid to keep the market afloat for
longer.

"The housing market is slow and likely to drop even further in the next few
months, so it makes sense for sellers to offer discounts and incentives to
buyers who now need to be tempted to spend their money."

He added: "The implications of the terrorist strike and its effect on the United
States, the UK and the global economy are serious. A slowdown in the number of
house buying and selling transactions has already been noted, and this reduction
in prices will become more widespread as we approach the pre-Christmas quiet
time."

Developers Galliard Homes, Rushmon Homes and Fairview have all slashed house
prices.

Galliard has cut as much as GBP 55,000 from flats in a converted school
development in Bloomsbury, central London. Guy Tkach, managing director of
Rushmon Homes, said: "There are deals to be done. Uncertainty is rife and we
feel we have to go some way to meet buyers."

But estate agents say the market is weakest at the top end - GBP 500,000-plus -
and owners who need to sell can be held to ransom by buyers determined to beat
them down.

Field Mill, a mansion in Ashford in Kent, was first priced at GBP 775,000. Now
GBP 80,000 has been knocked off the asking price. Another typical
top-of-the-market property, three-bedroom Fermain Cottage at Henley-on-Thames,
has been cut in price by GBP 25,000 - from GBP 450,000 to GBP 425,000.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              268 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           October 13, 2001, Saturday

AIR STRIKES ON AFGHANISTAN: BRITAIN - LONDON GOES ON HEIGHTENED TERROR WATCH

BYLINE: Paul Waugh, Ben Russell And Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 517 words


POLICE AND the military in London have been put on high alert over the weekend
because of fresh warnings that Britain is a likely target for terrorist attacks.

The number of officers on high-visibility patrols in the capital will be boosted
by 500 to 1,500 during the next two days.

Intelligence reports during the past week have suggested that an attack on the
UK was being planned. Sources have told The Independent that the threat is "non
-site specific", with no individual targets being identified.

Both the Metropolitan and City of London Police are operating on an "amber"
security level - the highest after "red", although they stress there is no
specific intelligence to suggest that London is at risk.

Police presence has been increased across the city, particularly at government
buildings and City institutions, and checks on traffic stepped up. Security at
power and water supplies has also been tightened.

Downing Street has constantly played down fears of the prospect of atrocities in
Britain, repeating its carefully worded statement that "we have no evidence of a
specific threat to the UK".

However, the FBI warned on Thursday night that fresh terror attacks could be
launched within the next "several days". John Ashcroft, the Attorney General,
was briefed that the likelihood of further incidents was "100 per cent".

Peter Hain, a Foreign Office minister, found himself in trouble with Downing
Street last month when he let slip that Osama bin Laden was planning more "high
-impact" atrocities. Mr Hain told a television audience he had seen intelligence
reports containing evidence that Britain faced a "very dangerous situation" from
the suspected terrorist.

As if to underline the US assessment of the threat, the American embassy in
London put up a double row of steel barriers around its Grosvenor Square
premises yesterday and barred passing traffic.

Britain's plans for dealing with an emergency in London would be overhauled in
response to the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington, the Government
said.

Nick Raynsford, the local government minister, and Ken Livingstone, the Mayor of
London, met senior officials from the capital's emergency services yesterday to
review the plans. A special civil contingencies committee for London has been
established and will report to emergency planners in Whitehall.

Mr Livingstone said: "Since the events in New York, all of the existing plans
have been reviewed and updated in the light of the attacks, which I don't think
anyone anticipated in terms of terrorism."

Speaking before the meeting, Mr Raynsford denied that the capital's emergency
planning had been neglected before September's terrorist attacks, insisting that
all services were working together to ensure that the city was ready for any
emergency.

The Local Government Association said there was no need for gas masks,
protective suits or other precautions in the light of the terrorist attacks, but
said that local authority planners were continuously reviewing arrangements to
deal with major incidents.

LOAD-DATE: October 13, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              269 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

Britons' views of Muslims unchanged after US attacks

BYLINE: By Anthony King

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 698 words

A FEARED backlash against British Muslims after last month's terrorist attacks
on America appears not to have materialised, according to a special NOP survey
for The Daily Telegraph.

The vast majority of Britons say their feelings towards Muslims living in this
country have not changed since September 11. Only one in eight admits to viewing
Muslims less favourably than before.

Most people also believe it unfair to link ordinary Muslims in Britain to the
attacks. Almost 90 per cent of NOP's respondents believe that most British
Muslims are not in any way complicit.

At the same time, there is widespread sympathy for Lady Thatcher's view that
Britain's Muslim leaders have not been vigorous enough in condemning the
atrocities. More than 40 per cent of NOP's sample believe they have not been
sufficiently outspoken.

The survey as a whole suggests that most non-Muslim Britons combine a "live and
let live" attitude towards the Muslims in their midst with considerable
ignorance of - and considerable doubts about - their religion.

NOP's interviewers began by asking people how much they felt they knew about
Islam.

Only 17 per cent claimed to know "a good deal" or "a fair amount" about the
Islamic faith. Far more, a total of 83 per cent, confessed to knowing "only a
little" or "nothing at all".

However, ignorance is evidently combined with tolerance. Only 13 per cent of
non-Muslims said they now held a "less favourable" view of British Muslims than
they did before September 11.

More than six times as many, 82 per cent, said their feelings had not changed
over the past month and three per cent said their feelings were "more
favourable".

Opinion is more divided about whether Muslim leaders have gone far enough in
condemning last month's attacks. As many people believe the leaders have been
sufficiently outspoken as think they have not. Many are unsure. Interviewers
asked: Some people are linking in their minds ordinary Muslims living in Britain
with the terrorist attacks. Do you think it is fair or unfair to make such a
link?

The pattern of responses was unambiguous. No fewer than 88 per cent thought it
was unfair to make any such link. A mere nine per cent thought the opposite.

Views about Islam as a faith and its followers are more mixed.

At one extreme, three quarters of people believe Islam is "a strongly spiritual
religion and opposed to materialism" and almost as many deny that it "preaches
holy war".

At the other extreme, large majorities are convinced that Islam "has a lot of
fanatical followers". They believe that it gives the impression of having "more
to do with the Middle Ages than the modern world".

Two thirds also think that it is a religion that "treats women badly".

The dominant view is that most Muslim people have integrated well into British
society.

As the figures in the chart show, a large majority believe that Muslims have
fitted into this country either "very well" (13 per cent) or "quite well" (57
per cent).

A substantial minority is more doubtful. Roughly a quarter believe - or fear -
that Muslims have fitted in "pretty badly" (19 per cent) or "very badly" (four
per cent).

The minority that believes Muslims have not fitted in well are consistently more
likely to have negative views of Islam as a religion and Muslims as people.

A large proportion appears quite vague about whether any Muslim families live
near them. Roughly a quarter of NOP's sample believe they do, but the proportion
is almost certainly too high. Large numbers almost certainly confuse Muslims
with Hindus, Sikhs and others with a South Asian background.

That said, the views of those who do, and do not, believe they have Muslim
families living nearby are broadly similar. If anything, Britons who believe
they do have Muslim neighbours are somewhat more favourably disposed towards the
Islamic faith and its followers than others.

Proximity of non-Muslims to Muslims seems to lead to greater tolerance and
acceptance rather than the reverse.

NOP Research conducted telephone interviews this week with 600 adults between
Monday and Wednesday of this week.

Anthony King is Professor of Government at Essex

University.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              270 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

Give us proof and we'll flush out bin Laden, say Muslims Britain

BYLINE: By Nick Britten

SECTION: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 688 words

GATHERING for the first time in a decade, senior Muslim leaders offered
yesterday to travel to Afghanistan to flush out Osama bin Laden on behalf of the
Western allies if presented with enough evidence to convince them that he was
behind the terrorist attacks in America.

The International Muslim Organisation said it was prepared to mediate if it
meant bringing bin Laden before an international court of justice. If he refused
to co-operate, or if the Taliban refused to hand him over, they would back
bombing raids by the West in Afghanistan.

Against a backdrop of increasing tension in Muslim communities in Britain, 125
of the country's most senior Muslim scholars met in Birmingham to co-ordinate a
response to the events of the last month.

The emulah, or senior clerics, meet only in times of crisis, the last being in
1991 during the Gulf war. They had met only twice previously; to discuss the war
between Iran and Iraq and the repercussions over Salman Rushdie's book The
Satanic Verses.

Yesterday they met in a hall usually reserved for weddings and functions. They
sat around a table for three hours discussing whether America had brought the
terrorist attacks on itself with years of inconsistent foreign policy which had
allegedly led to the persecution of Muslims.

The idea was to agree a harmonised response to preach to Muslim communities
across Britain. About 20 trainee scholars, some barely in their teens, sat
around the room nodding sagely from time to time.

Faizul Aqtab Saiddiqui, the president of the organisation, said the attacks on
America were "symptomatic" of American foreign policy. They were regrettable, he
said, as was the American response, but he would go no stronger when pressed by
journalists. Instead, he was "emphatic" that it was up to the Western nations to
change their foreign policy or risk years of similar terrorist attacks.

"They won't support the Taliban because they say [the regime] came to government
undemocratically, yet they support the Algerian government, which came to
government undemocratically.

"Today Russia is the friend of the West, but it is the same Russia that they
spent millions on to get them out of Afghanistan. Then the Taliban were right,
but now they give millions supporting to the Northern Alliance to fight the
Taliban. Their treatment of Muslims in Iraq is causing unrest in the Muslim
community worldwide. Muslims aren't stupid, they are educated people. They see
this hypocrisy for what it is and are hurt and angered.

"American interference is happening in countries all over the world and this
kind of hypocrisy and interference is fuelling this passion and anger. There is
no definition of what is terrorism and what is the fight for natural justice.

"We ask for the yardstick of justice, as President Bush calls it, to be applied
evenly otherwise the West will sow the seeds of hatred. Today they are trying to
deal with one Osama bin Laden, but unless they change their foreign policy they
will have to deal with thousands of Osama bin Ladens in coming years."

The answer, said Mr Saiddiqui, was to gather enough evidence, capture bin Laden
and put him before an international court of justice. "Not like the one we know
in The Hague, but one specifically designed with Muslim judges made up from
people not from politicians. If he does not give himself up, or is not given up
by the people harbouring him, then it will be a just war between Afghanistan and
America."

He made a plea for America to stop bombing Afghanistan and to forgive the
perpetrators of the attacks. It was a plea to show patience and understanding to
draw the international community together.

The term jihad, in the meeting's opinion, was misunderstood and the wrong
meaning, holy war, was used with abandon. It meant a struggle against oppression
and injustice in any walk of life, that should be countered with any legal
means, from lobbying MPs to protest marches.

The "real" holy war, qitaal, could only be called by the leader of an Islamic
state and would involve every Muslim in the world rising up. "A frightening
thought," whispered one.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              271 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 12, 2001

BRITAIN COUNTS THE COST OF FEAR; BRITAIN IN FEAR

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA FLETCHER AND SARAH O'GRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1 2

LENGTH: 940 words


KEY household bills are set to soar as Britain starts to pay the price of
terror, it emerged yesterday.

Car and home insurance premiums will rocket as companies struggle to pay the
estimated GBP 34billion cost of the US terrorist attacks.

With house prices plummeting, there was also gloomy news on the jobs front as
one of the country's most prestigious companies, Rolls-Royce and Bentley, was
forced to put its workers on a three-day week because of falling US demand.

The announcement came as airports admitted that passenger numbers had dropped by
more than half a million in September.

Airlines have already been severely hit with thousands of job losses and pay
cuts. And tourist chiefs last night estimated that the industry will lose GBP
2.5billion this year because fewer visitors are coming to Britain.

The Association of British Insurers warned yesterday: "Rates are rising." Its
spokesman Malcolm Tarling said: "The long-term implications of the United States
tragedy will have serious effects for those customers who pay insurance
premiums. That includes British businesses as well as the domestic customer.

Basically it's not a good time to be in the insurance marketplace. The industry
has been under immense pressure for some time.

"You only have to think about last winter's floods and this summer's
foot-and-mouth epidemic to realise that. Those floods cost the insurance
companies GBP 850million.

"Also, we are living in an increasingly litigious society and the number of
claims is going up.

"We pay out GBP 41million a day to settle those claims. For every GBP 1 we get
paid, we pay out GBP 1.20 in a claim.

"The September 11 attacks have added to the pressure, and coupled with depressed
stock markets and a 10-fold increase in reinsurance costs they mean heavier
premiums."

AA Insurance Services was the first company to highlight higher premiums, saying
the costs were a direct result of events in the US.

Managing director Kerry Richardson said: "I have never before seen the market so
negative. Prices are going in one direction - up."

He added that it was difficult to predict how steep the price increases would
be. But experts said rises could be as high as 35 per cent.

The cost of insuring a car has already jumped by 14 per cent, from an average of
GBP 580.85 this time last year to GBP 657.94.

The average buildings insurance premium is now GBP 135 and the average contents
policy costs GBP 109. Higher premiums could be the final nail in the coffin of
the property market.

Britain's biggest mortgage lender, the Halifax, last week released figures
showing no monthly price rise for the first time in two years. And this week it
warned that the oncenarrowing North-South property divide was opening up again
as the North suffers from a manufacturing recession.

Estate agents around the country have already started to slash prices. It is now
a buyer's market, experts said yesterday.

Saxon Brettell, the director of Cambridge Econometrics, said: "The property
bubble has finally burst and estate agents are now pricing property more
realistically in a bid to keep the market afloat for longer. The housing market
is slow and likely to drop even further in the next few months. Confidence in
the economy is low and is set to fall further as we sink deeper into recession.

"The implications of the US terrorist strike and its effect on the US, the UK
and the global economy are very serious."

New quarterly figures from the Halifax show that while prices in the South-west
rose by 7.5 per cent during the three months to the end of September, in the
North-west house price growth ground to a halt and in Northern Ireland prices
fell by more than three per cent.

Tourist chiefs forecast a cut in holiday prices as the industry grapples with
the aftermath of the foot-and-mouth crisis as well as the terrorist attacks in
America. Richard Tobias, chief executive of the Associatio n of Incoming Tour
Operators, said: "Prices will be lower fo r both UK customers and those abroad.

"There will never be a bette r time to visit Britain whether yo u are from
Britain or abroad."

Tour operators said yesterday that despite the fall in the number of air
passengers, halfterm trips for families were booked up.

Charles Gurassa, chief executive of Thomson Travel Group, said: "Tens of
thousands of holidaymakers are booking an d going away to the sun ever y week.

"Despite the terrible events in the US, the British holidaymaker is not giving
up his hardearned holiday."

Thomson is offering trips to Malta, which were GBP 429, for GBP 257, while
Thomas Cook is offerin g customers who book a JMC holiday for next summer the
chance to change destinatio n or holiday dates free of charge.

Customers who are nervous about booking now will b e able to change any details
o f the holiday up until they pa y the balance.

ROLLS ROLLING TOWARDS CRISIS THE terrorist attacks in America have plunged
Britain's most famous car company into crisis.

Rolls-Royce and Bentley are putting workers on a three-day week after US sales
fell by 60 per cent in the wake of the atrocities.

America is the firm's biggest market, accounting for nearly half its sales.
Earlier this week the Cheshire-based firm axed 41 temporary staff. Now more than
800 production workers at its factory in Crewe have been told they must work a
reduced week from the end of this month.

All 2,500 employees will also be given an extra three days off at Christmas.

A company spokeswoman said: "You cannot keep making cars if customers are not
buying them."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              272 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 12, 2001

BRITAIN BEGINS TO PAY COST OF TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: BY VICTORIA FLETCHER AND SARAH O'GRADY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 535 words


BRITAIN is starting to pay the price of terror as new figures yesterday revealed
that almost all household bills will spiral.

Homeowners will face soaring premiums for their houses and cars as insurance
companies struggle to pay for the US terror attacks.

The gloomy outlook was also hitting job security with the news that one of the
country's most prestigious companies, Rolls Royce and Bentley, was returning to
the three day week - something not seen since the days of the Seventies.

The revelation comes as airports admitted passenger numbers dropped by more than
half a million in September.

Airlines have already been hit with thousands of job losses and pay cuts.

The estimated cost of the September 11 atrocities to the insurance industry is
expected to reach GBP 34.3billion - most of which will be recouped from
homeowners and drivers. The Association of British Insurers (ABI) warned
yesterday:

"Rates are rising."

Malcolm Tarling of the ABI said: "The long term implications of the tragedy will
have serious effects for those people who pay insurance payments.

"That includes businesses as well as the domestic customer.

It's not a good time to be in the insurance marketplace. The industry has been
under pressure for some time. You only have to think about last winter's floods
and this summer's foot-and-mouth epidemic.

Those floods cost the insurance companies GBP 850million.

"Also we are living in an increasingly litigious society and the number of
claims are going up. The attacks have added to the pressure and, coupled with
depressed stock markets and a 10-fold increase in re-insurance costs, they mean
heavier premiums."

AA Insurance Services were the first company to highlight the higher premiums
saying they were a result of events in the US. Kerry Richardson, managing
director of AA Insurance Services, said: "I have never before seen the three
overall drivers of the insurance market so negative at the same time to this
extent.

"If you take the three together it puts a very negative view on the health of
the sector.

When they wash through I expect the underlying prices to go in one direction -
up."

He added that while it was difficult to predict how steep increases would be,
consumers were likely to see premiums start rising during the last part of the
year.

Higher insurance premiums could be the final nail in the coffin of the property
market.

Last week Britain's biggest mortgage lender released figures showing no monthly
price rise for the first time in two years. And this week the Halifax warned the
once-narrowing north-south property divide was opening up again.

Estate agents have already started to slash prices.

Even the British Tourist chiefs said they were slashing UK holiday prices in a
bid to woo visitors and save 75,000 jobs in the industry. Passenger numbers fell
by six per cent in September, with a drop of over 29 per cent in passengers on
routes across the Atlantic.

Since the terrorist attacks, British tourist chiefs predict a GBP 1billion fall
off in tourism in the UK with the loss of 75,000 jobs. Up to five million
visitors are expected to stay away in the coming months.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              273 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 12, 2001

BUSH VOWS THE HUNT WILL GO ON

BYLINE: FROM TOBY MOORE IN NEW YORK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 172 words


AS America marked the first month since the terror attacks on New York and
Washington, President George Bush vowed there would be no letup in the hunt for
those responsible.

"Today we are a nat0ion awakened to the evil of terrorism and determined to
destroy it, " Bush told a memorial service outside the Pentagon.

"The hijackers were instruments of evil who died in vain, " he said. "Behind
them is a cult of evil which thrives on human suffering. There is the worst kind
of cruelty, the cruelty that is fed, not weakened, by tears."

In New York weary workers paused for a moment at ground zero.

Meanwhile, more than 2,500 firemen and women, representing every force in
Britain, filled St Paul's Cathedral in London for a memorial service to honour
firefighters killed in New York.

Canon Stephen Oliver said the 343 who died were "victims of a malevolent evil".

And more than 100 American air stewards, stewardesses and pilots also gathered
for a service of remembrance at London's Heathrow airport.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              274 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Gloucester Citizen

                                October 12, 2001

Give up bin Laden now!

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 360 words


AMERICAN president George Bush today offered the Taliban leadership a second
chance to hand over Osama bin Laden.

In a direct message to Afghanistan's leadership, he said: "If you give him up,
we will reconsider what we are doing to your country."

Mr Bush admitted he did not know if bin Laden, the suspected mastermind behind
the September 11 terrorist attacks, was alive or dead.

But he said: "I do not know if he is dead or alive. I want him brought to
justice, however."

Mr Bush's press conference, designed to reassure the American people and
broadcast on virtually every television network from coast to coast, came
exactly a month after the terror attacks which have left at least 5,000 people
dead.

The president called on Americans to prepare for a long war n and went out of
his way to praise Britain and Prime Minister Tony Blair.

"If you want to join us militarily like Great Britain has, do so," he said.

"And might I add they have done so in a fashion that should make the people of
Great Britain proud."

And he launched a campaign to get American children to help children in
Afghanistan by sending donations of a dollar to the White House.

The 45-minute press conference was the first time in more than five years a
president had used prime-time television to answer questions.

Mr Bush also used it to reach out to an international audience, and especially
the Muslim world, repeating his message that he was waging war on terror, not
Islam.

The president said he wanted to update people on the progress of the war and
said: "We have ruined terrorist training camps, disrupted their communications,
weakened the Taliban military and destroyed most of their air defences.

"It is a sustained campaign to drive the terrorists out of their caves and bring
them to justice."

He went on: "At the same time we are showing the compassion of America by
bringing food and medicine to the Afghan people who are themselves the victims
of a repressive regime."

The president also tried to calm jittery nerves after the FBI warned of a
"general threat" to Americans at home and abroad of more terrorist attacks in
the next few days.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 The Gloucester Citizen

                              275 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: ICM poll: British do not see Islam as threat to values:
Majority say war should end only when Bin Laden is captured or killed and
Taliban removed

BYLINE: Alan Travis Home affairs editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 535 words


Servicing a US F-18 on combat duty . . . 66% of Britons polled are confident
about US war decisions Photograph: Jockey Finck/AP

Nearly two-thirds of Britons do not regard Islam as a threat to "western
values", implying that the attacks on Afghanistan are not seen as a "clash of
civilisations", according to today's Guardian/ICM opinion poll.

The survey also shows that there is broad confidence that the United States will
"do the right thing" during the war, but there is growing anxiety about the
danger of a retaliatory terrorist attack on the United Kingdom.

About 25% of voters are con cerned that emergency laws against terrorism to be
introduced next week in the House of Commons will prove a threat to civil
liberties.

In comparison with US polls taken since the bombing started, the Guardian/ICM
poll shows a slightly less belligerent attitude and a rather more stoical view
to the threat of retaliatory action. The most recent US polls show 90% support
for the bombing.

The overwhelming 74% British support for military action against Afghanistan
recorded by the Guardian/ ICM poll compares with a Russian Rom ir poll which
showed Muscovites split, with 49% opposed and 42% in favour.

In the Guardian/ ICM poll there is little variation between age groups or social
classes in support for the campaign. The proportion of women (18%) who
disapprove of the bombing is about the same as among men. Among different
parties' voters the split is also fairly narrow, with 76% of Labour voters
backing military action, 83% of Tory supporters, and 69% of Liberal Democrats.

The poll shows growing nervousness over the threat of a retaliatory attack in
Britain. Some 41% say they are anxious about their families getting caught up.
This compares with 32% two weeks ago. But British reaction is still fairly
stoical with most - 54% - saying that they consider the risk of a terrorist
attack is about the same as before September 11.

The fear of retaliation is not strong enough to undermine support for the
military campaign. Only 10% say that if there was a new terrorist outrage in
London should Britain stop supporting the US action, while 85% say Britain
should continue to support the war.

The degree of trust of British voters in Washington in the overall conduct of
the war shows little variation across gender, social class or age groups. Across
the board 66% say they are either very confident or fairly confident the US will
take the right decisions.

Concerns that the new anti-terrorism laws will threaten civil liberties are not
strong. Twenty-eight per cent of Liberal Democrats say they are worried,
compared with 26% of Labour voters and 20% of Tories.

ICM interviewed a random sample of 1,001 adults by telephone on October 9 and
10. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results weighted to the
profile of all adults.

* Most Britons - 82% - said their feelings had not changed towards Muslims in
Britain since the terror attacks, and 88% said it was unfair to link them,
according to an NOP survey for the Daily Telegraph.

Polly Toynbee, page 21 Interactive guides to the attack on Afghanistan
guardian.co.uk/interactive


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              276 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: 'The tragedy is that Bin Laden is exploiting people's
faith': These are edited extracts from an article written by Tony Blair for
Islamic media abroad

BYLINE: Tony Blair

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 712 words


Let's be clear what happened on September 11. Many thousands of men, women and
children, young and old, cleaners, office workers of all faiths including Islam,
were killed in cold blood. They were not soldiers or fighters. They were not
politicians. Nothing in Islam justifies such wholesale slaughter of innocents.
Nothing in the teachings of the Koran condones the killing of civilians, of
woman, children and non-combatants.

I am not an expert on Islam. But Britain is now a multicultural society. There
are millions of British Muslims. In my political life, I have met many Muslim
leaders in Britain and abroad. I know that Islam is a peaceful, tolerant
religion. I know that we share many of the same values including the respect for
life.

As the Prophet Mohammed (God's peace and blessings be upon him) said to his
armies: 'Do not kill old people or religious people'.

That is why Islamic leaders, Muslim clerics around the world have rightly
condemned the attacks on America as terrorism pure and simple.

Osama bin Laden says that those who carried out these attacks were defending the
Palestinians as well as Muslims around the world. Yet the September 11 attacks
also killed many innocent Muslims, Palestinians among them. And we know that the
attack was planned two years ago, when the peace process was moving forward in
the Middle East.

Does anybody really think it advances Muslim causes if the whole of the United
States believes Muslims murdered thousands of New Yorkers? 0r is it more a case
of Osama bin Laden exploiting the Palestinian cause?'

Britain, the rest of Europe and the US have always recognised that the
Palestinians have faced, and face, injustice. We have always supported the
creation of a Palestinian state, through negotiation, which contributes to the
stability of all the countries in the region, including Israel. That is why, in
the last few days, we have exerted enormous pressure to get the Middle East
peace process back on track.

Osama bin Laden and people like him would have you believe that in taking action
against terrorists and their supporters, we are declaring war on Islam. This may
serve his interests. If people believe him, he will be safer, he will gain
recruits for further terrorist attacks, and he will be one step closer towards
his real goal: to undermine any Muslim government prepared to live in peace and
cooperation with the rest of the world and replace them with fanatics in
permanent conflict with the west. Can that really be in the interests of Islam
or Muslims around the world?

This is not a war against Islam. If it were, why would virtually every country
in the world condemn the attacks on America? Why would we be stepping up our
humanitarian aid to the people of Afghanistan? Why would military action be
targeted only against the terrorists who carried out the attacks in America and
the regime that supports them? Why would we be redoubling our efforts to bring
peace in the Middle East?

And is the west really anti-Muslim as Osama bin Laden claims? If that were true,
why would tens of millions of Muslims be living in America and Europe, free to
practise Islam? Why would Nato soldiers be protecting Muslims across the Balkans
- from Kosovo to Bosnia? Why would the US and her allies have intervened
militarily to defend Muslims in Kosovo, who at the time were suffering huge
injustices at the hands of an orthodox Christian state? And in 1991, why would
we have come to the aid of a small Muslim state that had been invaded by a
larger one?

Is it not true that some of the most barbaric acts against Muslims have been
carried out by other Muslim states, such as Iraq's brutal war against Iran?

The truth is that Osama bin Laden knows this is not a war against Islam. He
knows this is a war against him and his like; terrorists who kill thousands of
innocent people. He knows that we are now committed to working with the
countries of the Muslim world, as equal partners in the fight against terrorism.

The tragedy is that Osama bin Laden is cynically exploiting people's faith to
divide east and west, Muslims and non-Muslim.

This is why I do not believe that Osama bin Laden and people like him are the
true representatives of Islam.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              277 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan: Fake attack: Porton papers reveal biological danger for
Blair: Tests showed Whitehall's vulnerability

BYLINE: Rob Evans and John Carvel

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 375 words


Secret experiments highlighted how an anthrax attack by terrorist saboteurs
could kill many in the upper echelons of the British government, documents
obtained by the Guardian have revealed.

The discovery comes as doctors called on the government yesterday to lift a veil
of official secrecy hampering contingency planning for acts of chemical or
biological terrorism.

The experiments by military scientists in Whitehall clearly demonstrated that
anthrax could easily infect many ministers and officials in key government
buildings, including the residence of the prime minister in Downing Street.

The scientists concluded that the "potential for clandestine biological warfare
attacks is considerable".

The threat of bioterrorism has grown in the minds of much of the public since
the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon a month ago. The
government is aware that Britain could be the next target for terrorists, who
could unleash lethal germs on the country. Emergency plans to cope with such a
disaster have drawn on experiments conducted by scientists from the biological
and chemical warfare establishment at Porton Down, Wiltshire.

In one set of trials, the scientists released non-lethal micro-organisms which
simulated the path of an anthrax cloud in tunnels under Whitehall from
Parliament Square to Trafalgar Square. The fake anthrax penetrated through huge
doors into buildings at the heart of government. It is likely that the cloud
would have infiltrated 10 Downing Street during the trials in 1955.

Experiments were also conducted on trains and the Underground in the 1950s and
1960s. "The trials demonstrated the clear vulnerability of these several
locations to clandestine attack," warned Porton in an internal account of the
experiments. The account of the trials was released to the Guardian under the
open government code.

Meanwhile Ian Bogle, chairman of the British Medical Association, yesterday
warned that germ warfare contingency plans might break down if information was
restricted to a few highly placed officials in each area who might be absent
when disaster struck, or killed. Doctors needed more information to reassure
their patients, Dr Bogle said.

Cover story, G2


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              278 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 12, 2001

Muslims in UK urged to back peace: Protests Blair to be asked for proof of Bin
Laden's role in attacks

BYLINE: Angelique Chrisafis

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 11

LENGTH: 524 words


Islamic leaders will today call on British Muslims to stage peaceful protests
against the air strikes on Afghanistan.

Around 100 Islamic scholars from across Britain and Europe met in Birmingham
yesterday to define the concept of jihad - translated in the western media as
holy war - and to ask British Muslims at prayers today to join a new jihad.

Faizul Aqtab Siddiqi, president of the London-based International Muslim
Organisation, said: "Jihad is misunderstood in the media.

"To say jihad is an armed holy war is like saying the Salvation Army has bombs.
Jihad is a struggle which Muslims undertake within the law - with the pen, with
money, by writing to MPs, by talking to the media.

"We are a law-abiding community. We urge the people of Britain to struggle
within their means and through demonstrations.

"We urge people to express in the clearest terms that they will struggle against
any injustice - and the bombing of civilians in Afghanistan is a grave
injustice."

A large part of Britain's 3m Muslim population is expected to take part in
peaceful demonstrations across Britain.

Mr Siddiqi said Islamic scholars would write to Tony Blair today expressing
concerns about civilian casualties in Afghanistan.

They would suggest that he allows a delegation of British Muslim elders to see
conclusive proof of Osama bin Laden's involvement on the recent terrorist
attacks on the US.

A British delegation would be prepared to take evidence to Afghanistan and
attempt to persuade Bin Laden to surren der himself for trial by an
international court with a Muslim contingent.

Speaking for all the scholars present, Mr Siddiqi said the attacks on the US
were "extremely regrettable" but "symptomatic of a worldwide problem".

Unless the misconceptions surrounding the words terrorism and jihad were
clarified, and the west carefully considered its foreign policy, western
countries would find themselves fighting "thousands of Osama bin Ladens".

Muslims in Britain also expressed serious concerns for their safety.

Massoud Shadjareh, chairman of the Islamic Human Rights Commission, said there
had been more than 160 assaults on Muslims in Britain since September 11.

Mr Shadjareh said: "We thought attacks on Muslims might fall off after the US
began strikes against Afghanistan. But the scale of attacks has continued. While
this meeting was going on, an Islamic human rights campaigner in Birmingham
called me to say she had been the victim of another attack on her home.

"She has been attacked four times since September 20. She has had bricks,
firecrackers and eggs thrown at her windows. We have seen a decline in the
attendence of mosques because people are in fear."

Mr Shadjareh said since the air strikes against Afghanistan began, two Muslim
women students at Cambridge University had had their headscarves ripped off in
the street, a mosque was set on fire in Southend-on-sea and several attacks were
reported in Swansea and Cardiff.

"We know isolated individuals are perpetrating these attacks. But there is a
feeling in some parts that Muslims are under siege."


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              279 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 12, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERROR: SCARED BRITAIN: YOU CAN EVEN GET A TABLE AT THE IVY..

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 377 words

HIGHLIGHT: IVY LEAGUE: Nicole Kidman and Kate Moss; SUFFERING: London celebrity
haunt The Ivy


PRICES are falling faster than autumn leaves as Britain's service industries try
to cope with the aftermath of the US terror attacks, recession and our own foot
and mouth epidemic.

A few weeks ago you wouldn't have had a prayer of getting a table at The Ivy in
London, restaurant haunt of celebs like Kate Moss, Nicole Kidman and Jack
Nicholson.

But last night a reporting team from The Mirror was able to command a table
without even pretending to be David Beckham or Madonna.

The country is packed with more bargains than the January sales, as our
reporters Mel Hunter, Emma Gibbs and Clare Goldwin discovered. This Saturday
night famed London hotel The Savoy is offering a superior room with a king
-sized bed, and throwing in a full English breakfast for two as well as VAT, for
pounds 255.

The room alone would usually cost pounds 345.

A member of the reservations team said: "It's pretty much the effect from
America and it's also a fairly quiet time of year."

Raymond Blanc's renowned Oxfordshire hotel and restaurant, Le Manoir aux Quat"
Saisons, offered to cut a superior room one night-stay next Friday from pounds
395 to pounds 300.

"It's the America effect," said one of the hotel staff.

Our team asked for a double room for tomorrow at Edinburgh's Balmoral Hotel, one
of Scotland's swankiest.

They were offered a superior room with king-sized bed for pounds 115, a
hugesaving of pounds 165. Even better was the offer of a deluxe king room
reduced from pounds 350 per night to a bargain pounds 125. The hotel said: "We
need to keep people employed."

In the Lake District the Glen Rothay Hotel in Rydal, is offering one night's
dinner, bed and breakfast for pounds 29.50 per person sharing a double room,
compared to the regular price of pounds 44.50.

Booking this weekend on Ryanair, flights to destinations like Brussels,
Frankfurt and Genoa are available for pounds 9.99 one-way including tax, between
Monday and Thursday after October 28.

A spokesman said: "We suffered a bit to start with, then decided to do something
about it."

And Howletts Wild Animal Park near Canterbury is selling half-price tickets
between November and February. A receptionist said: "We have never had to do
this before."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              280 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 12, 2001

Pull back from the warpath;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 459 words


WE condemn the terrorist attacks in the US that indiscriminately killed
thousands of innocent civilians.

Such acts of terrorism do not advance the cause of working people and the poor
across the world.

We believe, however, that the response of the US government to wage an unending
military campaign against terrorism across the world constitutes a serious
threat to the lives, liberties and livelihoods of the peoples of the Middle East
and elsewhere.

The military actions by the US and Britain will result in further countless
civilian deaths.

These actions will not provide the basis for political and economic solutions to
the conditions that feed terrorism, such as the continuing lack of a just peace
in the Middle East or desperate poverty in large parts of the world.

We also oppose the attacks on civil liberties to which this war against
terrorism is already inevitably leading.

We reject calls such as that for a "crusade in defence of civilisation, " which
have intensified antiMuslim and anti-Arab sentiments, and racism in general.

Therefore, we call upon the British government to pull back from the course of
war.

We also appeal to all trade union members to join the CND demonstration in
London tomorrow.

The above letter has been signed by the following union officials in a personal
capacity:

ASLEF general secretary Mick Rix;

UNISON national executive members Roger Bannister, Jane Carolan, Graham Cuffley,
Helen Jenner, Raph Parkinson, Jean Thorpe and Mike Tucker;

UNISON local government service group chairwoman Jean Geldart;

PCS national executive members Dave Bean, Janice Godrich, Kathy Liddell, Marion
Lloyd and Danny Williamson.

NATFHE general secretary Paul Mackney, president Tina Downes, treasurer Fawzi
Ibrahim, vicepresident Gerard Kelly, expresident Jacqui Johnson and national
executive members Angie McConnell, Liz Lawrence, John Kreeger and Andrew Price;

NUT executive members Bernard Regan, Dave Harvey and Baljeet Ghale, ex-president
Carole Regan, Camden branch secretary Kevin Courtney and Alex Kenny of East
London branch;

RMT national executive members Phil Boston, John Leach and Alex Gordon;

RMT London Underground president Oliver New and secretary Pat Sikorski;

RMT train grades secretary Greg Tucker;

FBU London Region official Matt Wrack;

NUJ national executive member Anita Halpin;

MSF London Region secretary Jennie Twydell and national executive member Dave
Hutchinson.

For further details about the above letter, please contact Fred Leplat (Convener
of the Stop the War Coalition Trade Union Group), 11 Temple Fortune Lane,
London, NW11 7UB, Tel: (020) 84555805, mobile: 0794 189-3212 or email at f.
leplat@unisonfree. net

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              281 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 12, 2001

US and Britain commence offensive against terrorism.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 198 words

DATELINE: Breaking News



London is on high alert today after British missiles were launched last ni ght
into Afghanistan in the first military reprisals since the US terror attack of
September 11th.

Targets included Kandahar and Kabul airports, the Taliban's department of
defence, and training facilities believed to be used by Al-Qaida, Osama bin
Laden's terrorist network.

The Prime Minister said in a statement that British forces involved in the
hostilities included the British base on the island of Diego Garcia, British
surveillance aircraft and three British submarines, HMS Trafalgar, HMS Triumph
and HMS Superb.

Scotland Yard reports that security has been tightened around the capital, with
increased surveillance and patrols around particularly sensitive areas such as
Westminster, the City and Heathrow Airport.

Mr Blair has recalled Parliament for a late session this evening. At six o'clock
he will address the House of Commons. The debate will then continue until ten
o'clock.

Speaking from Blackpool where the Tory conference begins today, Iain
Duncan-Smith, leader of the opposition, expressed his party's full support for
the Government's actions.

October 8, 2001 10:14

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              282 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 12, 2001

Firefighters pay their respects

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 447 words


DOZENS of Westcountry firefighters were among more than 3,000 from all over
Britain who gathered in London yesterday for a memorial service to honour their
heroic American counterparts who died in the terrorist attacks on the World
Trade Centre.

Devon and Cornwall were among every fire brigade in England, Wales, Scotland and
Northern Ireland to be strongly represented at a stirring commemoration service
in St Paul's Cathedral.

Firefighters in the two counties, with great public support, have also raised,
and are still raising, many tens of thousands of pounds for the families of more
than 300 New York firefighters killed as they tried to save thousands of
workers.

Richard Bull, chairman of the Chief and Assistant Chief Fire Officers'
Association which organised yesterday's service, said: "The loss of lives
sustained by the New York Fire Department was unparalleled and has had a
tremendous impact on firefighters in this country.

"Firefighters in Britain have a great affinity for their colleagues in New York
and since the disaster have been raising money to help the dependants of those
who lost their lives.

"The service at St Paul's has provided the opportunity for firefighters in this
country to come together to pay their utmost respects to the men and women of
the New York Fire Department who died trying to save others."

At the start of the service United States Marine Corps members carried in the
Stars and Stripes flag, alongside members of London Fire Brigade who were
bearing the Union Flag.

The service, attended by 2,500 inside the cathedral and another 2,500 outside,
was conducted by the Dean of St Paul's, the Very Rev Dr John Moses.

Playing a leading part in the service, including a rendition of the Last Post,
were the 40 members of Devon Fire and Rescue Service's ceremonial unit of pipes
and drums.

It was revealed this week that the people of Cornwall have helped firefighters
raise more than GBP 38,000 for the families.

Dozens of schools, churches and businesses and thousands of people have
responded to street collections by firefighters.

Cornwall's chief fire officer Mick Howell said: "With all the hardship, low
wages and unemployment Cornwall has had to endure, it is overwhelming to see
this fantastic response."

Mr Howell is to present the Cornwall donations to a representative of the
American Embassy in London.

Anyone in Cornwall still wishing to make donations will be able to do so through
related charities and the brigade's bank account is to remain until October 31.

The sums raised in Devon's four fire divisions are still being counted.

PIPED TRIBUTE:Torquay fireman Dave Crawford before the service

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              283 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

BRITONS EXPECT ATTACKS ON UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 131 words


BRITONS overwhelmingly support the Prime Minister's handling of the Afghan
crisis but fear the military strikes make terror attacks on the UK more likely,
a poll showed yesterday.

The survey also found more than 77ppc of people believed the attacks on the
United States on September 11 had changed the world forever.

Mori questioned more than 600 adults nationwide for ITV1's Tonight With Trevor
McDonald programme, the first such poll since the air strikes on the Taliban and
Osama bin Laden began on Sunday.

The poll found 72pc approved of the way Mr Blair was handling the British
response to September 11 and 71pc believed Britain was right to join the US in
the military retaliation.

But 59pc now thought terrorist attacks against the UK were more likely.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              284 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

US will work with Britain to tackle bioterrorism

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 400 words

THE British and American governments will work together on plans to tackle the
threat posed by biological and chemical terrorism, it was announced last night.

Alan Milburn, the Health Secretary, said the agreement he signed with his
American counterpart would create "the strongest, most effective, most
innovative means to protect the health of our people against any further threat
that may be posed by terrorists".

The deal was clinched as investigations continued into the apparently deliberate
release of anthrax in Florida.

Under the arrangement, British and US officials will draw up plans for dealing
with public health emergencies, including attacks by terrorists.

Mr Milburn said: "We will jointly review our surveillance systems, review all
possible threats, no matter how remote, test our contingency plans and
strengthen them where necessary, in order to seek new and innovative ways of
providing even higher standards of public protection."

The agreement, called Collaboration in Improving Public Health Responses to
Emergencies, was signed in Americayesterday by Mr Milburn and Tommy Thompson,
the US health secretary. Although co-operation between the two governments on
this issue was planned for some time, the need for a pact was given new urgency
by the terrorist attacks on September 11.

Mr Milburn said: "There is no specific credible threat against us. Nonetheless
it is our obligation in government to prepare for all eventualities, however
remote they may be."

The Amrican anthrax outbreak, which is thought to have been deliberate, has
heightened fears of an attack in Britain.

Mr Milburn said: "By preparing or planning for the worst there is a risk we
raise rather than ease public fears. Our first responsibility, though, must be
the safety of the public we serve."

Earlier, in an interview on Radio 4's Today programme, David Blunkett, the Home
Secretary, played down the idea that Osama bin Laden had the capability to
launch an anthrax attack in Britain.

"We do not know that what happened in Florida came from a terrorist attack," he
said. "It may well have come from a madman who wished to cause fear and
dissension.

"What we do know is that if you were going to commit mass terrorism you would
not use anthrax because of the nature of the spread of the disease and the dose
that would have to be given."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              285 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

Letwin demands tougher laws to prevent terrorism

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 14

LENGTH: 189 words

NEW laws should be introduced to prevent terrorist suspects entering or staying
in Britain, Oliver Letwin, the Conservative spokesman on home affairs, told the
conference yesterday.

It was absurd that people considered a threat to safety were allowed into
Britain without ministers having the power to send them back, he said.

"We cannot lecture others on the need for a global war against terrorism if we
cannot take effective action at home."

Mr Letwin promised "deep and constructive dialogue" with the Government on
bringing forward new legislation.

He said the events of September 11 were the worst peacetime act of political
terror. "The next attack may be substantially worse and may be here, in Britain.
The purpose of our military action abroad is not revenge or retaliation. It is
not merely to bring those responsible to justice. It is self-defence."

Those responsible for recent "hateful attacks" on British mosques were
despicable criminals. British Muslims made an outstanding contribution to the
economic, cultural and democratic life of the country, he said.
[PS]News: [ES]

Conservatives at Blackpool:

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              286 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 11, 2001

Pounding on the home front

BYLINE: Alex Brummer

SECTION: Pg. 74

LENGTH: 770 words


THE pound, having enjoyed a brief rally against the dollar in recent weeks, has
come under the cosh in the latest trading sessions. This is somewhat surprising
in that interest rates in Britain offer a healthy premium to those among our
main trading partners.

However, in present markets yields appear to be less attractive to holders of
foreign currency than the prospect of future healthy growth.

One particular reason being cited for the latest bout of pressure which dragged
the pound down to $ 1.45 against the dollar from $ 1.47 earlier this week, was
the fear that deputy Bank of England governor David Clementi might blow the
whistle on further interest rate cuts.

The reality is that Clementi's speech, at Oxford University, contains no such
hints. He points out that a number of sectors, notably air travel and insurance,
were badly hit by the terrorist attacks of September 11 and that the fall in
equity prices may have been overdone.

Nevertheless, Clementi recognises that with Britain on armed alert and American
forces in the air and on the ground in and around Afghanistan the phrase 'more
than unusually uncertain' is particularly apt.

Such language suggests that the monetary policy committee will be ready to meet
market challenges as and when they occur. There is no suggestion the MPC will be
impervious to economic shocks.

Moreover, Clementi, who keeps his eyes on the financial stability wing of the
Bank, is also aware of the more technical risks to banking systems both from
events like the destruction of the twin towers in New York and global economic
recession. Just how vulnerable banking systems are is to be seen from the
Standard & Poor's report on the global financial system.

It points to weaknesses in several of the smaller euroland systems including
Finland, Ireland, Portugal and Spain as well as the usual suspects among the
developing countries including Cyprus, Egypt, Argentina and the Lebanon.

If there is a major surprise it is fears about credit quality in the US banking
system.

That could, in the end, prove a bonus for British banks with strong balance
sheets on the prowl for overseas expansion.

Until now they have found themselves effectively frozen out of the preferred
European market by regulatory and other obstacles.

As for sterling, its 2pc slippage against both the dollar and the euro has to be
placed in context.

If Tony Blair does, in the end, pursue the euro dream, which he mentioned in his
Labour Party conference speech, then eventually there will be many days when the
pound comes under pressure as the authorities seek to establish a competitive
entry rate for sterling.

What a sauce

THE very idea that John Mayo, the failed chief executive designate of Marconi,
should be fighting the company for more cash is enough to make the blood boil.

As a result of the generosity of Sir Roger Hurn and Lord Simpson he has already
passed Go and collected GBP 600,000 pay and a further GBP 995,000 from a top-up
pension scheme.

Despite this, Mayo who as finance director was most responsible for Marconi's
lax financial controls is still demanding further compensation of GBP 600,000
from a firm which is on its knees and will be lucky to survive. The equity in
the company has been all but destroyed with the shares now worth just a jot over
16p. The bankers and the bond holders are essentially in control.

The deals which Mayo made, admittedly with the complicity of the old Marconi
board, are largely responsible for the destruction of this once great company.
It is interesting to note that had Simpson and Mayo been less anxious to sell
off GEC's defence division (confusingly called Marconi) to BAe, the company
would presently be looking at full order books.

It is hard to imagine any of these gigantic mistakes being made were Lord
Weinstock, the steward of the old GEC, or a businessman of the calibre of Jack
Welch (see interview Page 77) in charge.

Welch, unlike Simpson, Mayo and, for that matter, Marconi's financial advisers
in the City, saw nothing wrong in running a company with a disparate group of
assets ranging from aero engines to power systems, television and finance.

The new chairman of Marconi has successfully limited the payoff to Lord Simpson
to GBP 300,000, although even this seems generous in the circumstances.

But it at least avoids a messy legal tangle.

As for Sir Roger Hurn, he has done the decent thing and gone without any
ex-gratia payment.

But that is the least that shareholders can expect given his feeble stewardship
as chairman.


LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              287 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 11, 2001

NEWS: OTHER

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.10

LENGTH: 214 words


Kindness shown to US visitors

MY HUSBAND and I have just returned from a three-week holiday in your beautiful
country.

As we were there when the terrorists attacked our country, we experienced at
first hand the kindness and deep caring that the British people have for the
American people.

As we travelled through Cornwall and Devon, we were approached by numerous
people from all over Britain.

It seems that as soon as people around us heard us talking and realised that we
were Americans, the urge to speak to us must have been irresistible

These people not only had such kind words for us, they wanted to shake our hands
or put a hand on our shoulders in a true show of compassion.

My husband and I were very touched by the concern shown towards the American
people.

Also, we were quite overwhelmed when we visited the Barbican and saw for
ourselves the multitude of floral arrangements, prayers and poems laid there by
the British people.

We cannot say thank you enough to all of you. You made our stay much easier.

We have made a concerted effort to inform all of our American friends about our
experiences in England and give to them the condolences and prayers of the
British people. We will never forget you.

DICK and MARIAN HENDERSON

New Haven

New York

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              288 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: CHEMICAL THREAT - UK ATTACK 'UNLIKELY'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 120 words

HIGHLIGHT: PREPARED: A fireman tests a shower at yesterday's decontamination
seminar in Colchester


HOME Secretary David Blunkett yesterday played down fears that the Florida
anthrax outbreak was an attack by bin Laden's terrorists.

But he admitted Britain and the US were discussing vaccinations against the
disease.

He said: "We don't know what happened in Florida came from a terrorist attack.
It may have come from a madman who wished to cause fear.

"If you were going to commit mass terrorism you would not use anthrax because of
the nature of the spread of the disease and the dose that would have to be
given."

Downing Street declined to rule out bin Laden having access to anthrax or other
biological weapons, but said the Government did not believe he was capable of
using them in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              289 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: UK ATTACK 'UNLIKELY'

BYLINE: Joe Churcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 122 words


British Home Secretary David Blunkett yesterday played down fears that the
Florida anthrax outbreak was an attack by bin Laden's terrorists.

But he admitted Britain and the US were discussing vaccinations against the
disease.

He said: "We don't know what happened in Florida came from a terrorist attack.
It may have come from a madman who wished to cause fear.

"If you were going to commit mass terrorism you would not use anthrax because of
the nature of the spread of the disease and the dose that would have to be
given."

Downing Street declined to rule out bin Laden having access to anthrax or other
biological weapons, but said the Government did not believe he was capable of
using them in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              290 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

MASSIVE UK BACKING FOR PM'S STANCE ON BIN LADEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 195 words


BRITONS overwhelmingly support the Prime Minister's handling of the Afghan
crisis but fear the military strikes make terror attacks on the UK more likely,
an opinion poll out yesterday showed.

The survey also found more than 77pc of people believed the attacks on the
United States on September 11 had changed the world forever.

Mori questioned more than 600 adults nationwide for ITV1's Tonight With Trevor
McDonald programme, the first such poll since the air strikes on the Taliban and
Osama bin Laden began.

The poll found 72pc approved of the way Mr Blair was handling the British
response to September 11 and 71pc believed Britain was right to join the US in
the military retaliation.

But 59pc now thought terrorist attacks against the UK were more likely as a
result of British participation in the military strikes, and 63pc were worried
terrorists would use chemical and biological weapons.

The poll found that 45pc of Britons thought recession was more likely following
the terror attacks in New York and Washington, 36pc were now less willing to
travel by air and 46pc would be prepared to pay higher taxes to finance military
action.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              291 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 11, 2001, Thursday

COMMISSION GIVES HOPE TO EUROPE'S STRICKEN AIRLINES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 470 words


AMERICAN President George Bush yesterday unveiled a list of America's most
wanted terrorists in the world.

The list of 22 suspected terror leaders, each with a reward of pounds 3.3m on
the their heads, includes Osama bin Laden and his top henchmen.

It also includes Anas Al-Liby, a Libyan who had political asylum in Britain
until fleeing to Afghanistan after he was accused of being involved in the 1998
bombings of the America embassies in Kenya and Tanzania.

Speaking at the headquarters of the THE European Commission has given the go
ahead for controlled cash compensation for UK airlines hit by the terrorist
attacks in America, but stressed it was in no way a form of bail out.

Brussels said compensation could be paid by any EU government for losses
incurred by European airlines after the attacks on September 11.

Governments can also give cash support to help offset the massive rises in
airline insurance costs since the atrocities, and they should cover the cost of
extra security measures because of the increased terrorist threat.

But the Commission refused to sanction any state aid - illegal under EU law -
which would create unfair competition in the struggling industry.

Andrew Cahn, BA's director of government and industry affairs, said the airline
broadly welcomed the Commission's report.

"We believe the airline industry needs to be a more 'normal' industry, and not
rely on state aid, so it can rationalise and restructure itself."

BA has already cut dozens of routes and announced salary cuts for 36,000 staff,
KLM in the Netherlands is shedding 25,000 jobs, and Belgium's national carrier
Sabena and its non-EU partner Swissair are virtually bankrupt.

Transport and General Workers Union general secretary Bill Morris said, "The
Commission has given the green light to assist the air industry - now we want to
see some government action.

Meanwhile, Irish Public Enterprise Minister Mary O'Rourke last night pledged a
fight to ensure that European airlines were not left at a cashflow disadvantage
against their American rivals.

Acknowledging the "very grave situation" she gave the assurance after Ireland's
troubled Aer Lingus airline told its 7,000 employees of near 40pc job cuts as
part of a survival package.

Unions yesterday continued their fight against British Airways's plans to impose
a pay freeze on 36,000 non-managerial staff, after BA executives and managers
agreed to take between 10-15pc pay cuts as the airline struggles to cope with a
huge downturn in passenger numbers.

However Ed Blissett, an official of the GMB union said, "Senior managers can
afford to take a pay cut when they are earning hundreds of thousands of pounds a
year. It is a different story for our members, some of whom earn as little as
pounds 8,000."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              292 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

FOOTBALL: SAFETY FIRST FOR FINALS

SECTION: Pg. 46

LENGTH: 164 words


THE 2002 World Cup will take place amid tighter security in the wake of the
terrorist attacks in the United States and reprisals in Afghanistan.

World football's governing body FIFA confirmed increased safety measures in
Japan and South Korea have already been discussed.

Australia's rugby league tour of Great Britain - scheduled to start on November
3 - was cancelled today due to fears over terrorism, and now World Cup bosses
have revealed next summer's tournament in the Far East, starting on May 31, will
have upgraded security.

Precautions

FIFA spokesman Keith Cooper said: 'There have been security considerations
involved in the planning from the beginning, and they have been increased in the
last few weeks.

'You move ahead and tighten what precautions you were taking anyway.

'We're talking about the organisation of the World Cup every single day, and
it's an ongoing process. Security is at the forefront of people's awareness all
the time."

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              293 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

STOP THE WAR - PLAID;
 SHOCK PLEA TO BLAIR, BUSH

BYLINE: Tom Bodden Welsh Affairs Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 363 words


PLAID Cymru last night became the first mainstream party in Britain to break
ranks with the Government and call for an end to the bombing of Afghanistan.

Leader Ieuan Wyn Jones warned of an impending humanitarian disaster as further
waves of air strikes were aimed at the country where the Taliban are shielding
Osama bin Laden.

The Ynys Min AM said: "The ordinary people of Afghanistan are facing a
humanitarian disaster of unimaginable proportions.

"We believe that the UK and US governments should desist from further bombing
strikes to allow the delivery of humanitarian aid on a massive scale and to make
possible further intensive diplomatic efforts to persuade those shielding
terrorists to hand them over."

Mr Jones repeated that Plaid Cymru wanted to see those responsible for the
September 11 atrocity in the USA brought to justice.

But he added: "We must also ensure that the efforts of members of our armed
forces and the risks that they are taking can achieve results and are effective.

"That is why any military response must be carefully targeted and aimed solely
at removing the terrorists' capacity to repeat the horrifying attacks on New
York and Washington.

"Such responses should be carried out under the aegis of the United Nations. The
UN Security Council should sanction all and any action."

He told the Daily Post that the party had made clear from the beginning the
scope of its backing for allied military action.

"We are absolutely appalled by the terrorist atrocities in the United States and
in total agreement with the need to target the removal of the terrorist threat
posed by Osama Bin Laden and his network, " he said.

"And we are prepared to see limited military action to remove that threat.

"But the problem we have is that the objectives are becoming much wider to
include the removal of the Taliban and the potential for strikes against other
Arab countries."

However, Downing Street last night rejected the Plaid call.

A spokesman said: "The Prime Minister made his position absolutely clear during
the third recall of Parliament that this action needed to be taken. Nothing has
changed."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEA: Ieuan Wyn Jones

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              294 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

French suspect to be extradited Britain

BYLINE: By Nicola Woolcock

SECTION: Pg. 08

LENGTH: 252 words

AN ALGERIAN detained in a top-security British prison in connection with
terrorist attacks on the Paris Metro is to be extradited to France, six years
after the bombings.

Rachid Ramda is accused of financing bomb attacks by the Armed Islamic Group in
1995 that killed 26 and wounded nearly 200.

French police said at the time that they believed the attacks were orchestrated
from London.

Ramda was arrested in November 1995 and since then has appealed three times
against extradition, losing his final case in 1999. The Home Office agreed on
Monday to send him to France.

A Home Office spokesman refused to confirm whether the decision was connected
with the new international spirit of co-operation against terrorism since the
September 11 attacks in America.

Ramda, a category A prisoner in HMP Belmarsh, south London, fought extradition
by claiming that the French criminal justice system was institutionally racist,
with Muslim defendants denied their basic rights.

The French authorities have grown increasingly frustrated with the drawn-out
extradition procedure, issuing at least three international arrest warrants
against him.

Ramda arrived in Britain in 1992 and became editor of the Armed Islamic Group's
newsletter, El Ansar.

His arrest in November 1995 was on suspicion of a range of terrorist offences.

A spokesman for the Home Office said yesterday: "The Home Secretary, David
Blunkett, decided on Monday to order Ramda's return to France."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on the Taliban:

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              295 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 10, 2001

Extremists retract call for Blair's assassination

BYLINE: Dan Bridgett

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 266 words


THE UK leader of an extremist Muslim group today condemned a call by its
spokesman in Pakistan for the assassination of Tony Blair.

The retraction came after Abdul Rehman Saleem, a spokesman for al-Muhajiroun in
Pakistan, was reported as saying: "If any Muslim wants to assassinate Mr Blair ,
wants to get rid of him, I am not going to shed any tears for him and from the
Islamic pint of view this person is not going to be chastised, this person is
not going to be punished for that act."

But the organisation's leader in Britain, Anjem Choudury, today said: "We've
made it very, very clear that it's not allowed for anyone in this country to
target anybody."

He added: "We're living in this country and we're living under the security of
Britain. We are not allowed to violate that .

"The population of the Arabs can defend themselves, no question about that .

And we will support them verbally-And we will help them - the widows and the
orphans - financially.

And physically we will hold demonstrations and rallies. But for us Tony Blair is
not a legitimate target and neither is Downing Street."

Asked if he condemned the violent comments, Mr Choudury said, " Absolutely.

It's prohibited Islamically to call for the assassination of Tony Blair."

Since the 11 September terror attacks on the US, al-Muhajiroun has issued a
fatwa against President Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan. It was behind several
vocal demonstrations in London at which young Muslims expressed support for
prime terror suspect Osama bin Laden and the Taliban regime in Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              296 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 10, 2001

LEADER COLUMN; BIOLOGICAL THREAT MEANS WE MUST BE VIGILANT AT HOME

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 313 words


THE battle to combat the evil of terrorism must be fought on two fronts. While
our armed forces prepare to join American troops to launch a ground attack on
the Taliban, it is all too easy to drop our guard at home. But British security
forces at home have been given a grim reminder that they, too, are on a war
footing.

The second case of deadly anthrax in the same newspaper office in Florida has
reawakened the spectre of biological attack by terrorists. Although
investigators have not yet concluded that this outbreak was a deliberate act,
they are not ruling it out. The possibility was reinforced by Britain's Foreign
Office minister Ben Bradshaw yesterday, who warned it was believed that
terrorists have access to chemical and biological weapons and given the chance
will use them.

If it proves to be the case that Osama Bin Laden's henchmen have switched their
assault on the US and its allies to biological warfare, the need for vigilance
on home ground will be more vital than ever. So it is hardly reassuring to learn
that our French neighbours have dubbed the capital Londonistan. This nickname
was awarded after it was discovered that a radical London mosque had been
attended by three terror suspects, who also all stayed at the same house in
Brixton.

If the atrocities in America were planned in Britain then it could explain why
US security services failed to predict the events of September 11. However, the
ease with which the plotters appear to have been able to map out their scheme
undetected in this country suggests our security services have some way to go
before we can feel confident that we are still not harbouring terrorists in our
midst.

All attention remains on Afghanistan, particularly now that ground forces look
set to join the combat. But we must never forget that there is a war to be won
just as fiercely at home.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              297 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          October 10, 2001, Wednesday

AUSSIE CHIEFS PULL OUT OF ASHES TOUR;
 FEARS OVER TERROR THREAT

BYLINE: Ian Laybourn

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 366 words


AUSTRALIA have cancelled the forthcoming Ashes tour of Great Britain because of
increased security fears.

Due to the continued allied bombing attacks on Afghanistan, the Australian Rugby
League (ARL) today agreed to postpone the three-Test tour after consulting the
24man squad and coaches.

ARL chairman Colin Love said: "Many of the players felt there was an
unacceptably high level of uncertainty surrounding a seven-week tour."

Australia team manager Darrell Bampton canvassed the feelings of the squad and
coaching staff yesterday and presented his findings to the ARL board today.

And it was decided the Kangaroos' first Ashes tour in seven years would now not
go ahead after events which have followed the September 11 terrorist attacks on
the United States.

The first tour match had been scheduled for October 20 against St Helens, while
the first of the three Tests was planned for November 3 in Huddersfield.

Great Britain's rugby league administrators could miss out on up to pounds 2m in
extra revenue as a result of the cancellation.

RFL chairman Sir Rodney Walker said: "We will need time to reflect on short and
long-term implications of the Australian Rugby League's decision.

"Some of the implications are very serious for both the Rugby Football League
and the international game.

"There's no doubt that the Australian decision is a bitter blow to the whole
international game.

"While we can understand to an extent their players' concern about the world
situation we have sought to assure them that life in Britain is carrying on
normally and that the security situation both here in the UK and the rest of
Europe is stable.

"I do hope that the Australian game as a whole is fully aware of the impact this
decision will have on the game outside their country but we shall now take a
little time to consider the position of our own domestic game and that of the
ramification of the Australian decision.

"Greg McCallum, our executive director of rugby, has moved heaven and earth to
reassure the Australians of the position here and nobody could have done any
more to assure them of their safety and security while in this country."

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              298 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 10, 2001

Strikes are right and just.

BYLINE: Citizen Smith

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 314 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



AS the retribution for the terrorist atrocity of September 11 is now unleashed
with the British and American missile blitz on Afghanistan, one certainty stands
out amid the inevitable trepidation that the conflict brings -- that this action
is right and just.

For when the terrorists decided to murder thousands innocent people in America
that bright morning less than four weeks ago, they almost certainly knew that it
would bring a terrible backlash.

Now, it commences with war on the brutal Taliban regime in Afghanistan which
both supports and harbours the evil terrorist network headed by Osama bin Laden.

Thus far, Britain and America have shown remarkable restraint. They offered the
Taliban the opportunity to deliver up bin Laden and his terrorist chiefs. But
they chose to remain on the side of terror -- and now deservedly reap the just
response.

But though the morality of this retaliation cannot be disputed, let us trust
that it is directed and confined as precisely as possible against the fanatical
upholders of terrorism's evil and does not fall upon the innocent citizens of
Afghanistan, many of whom are already suffering under the Taliban's oppression
and hate.

Let us then hope that civilian casualties are as few as possible and that every
bomb and missile falls only upon legitimate targets -- and that the Taliban
regime is brought rapidly to its knees with the terrorist chiefs delivered up to
international justice.

The hope that justice may be done, but without harm to the innocent, is today
shared by Muslim leaders in East Lancashire -- signifying not only their
community's understanding that this is a war against terror, not against Islam,
and that true Muslims are just as appalled as anyone else at the atrocities in
America.

Then, let us pray for victory in this just war -- and for it to end as swiftly
as possible.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              299 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

BRITAIN ON ALERT FOR TERROR ATTACKS

BYLINE: Nick Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 368 words


BRITAIN is on full alert for possible terrorist reprisals following the start of
the bombing campaign in Afghanistan.

Extra security measures and contingency plans are in place say Scotland Yard,
although they stress there is no specific threat to the UK.

As part of "Operation Calm", dozens of armed police officers and teams using
hidden video cameras have been stationed at potential terrorist targets,
including Heathrow Airport, the Houses of Parliament, Buckingham Palace,
Scotland Yard and the US Embassy.

Around 1,500 extra police officers have so far been drafted on to the streets of
London since September 11.

Specialist surveillance vehicles have also been deployed at a series of key
sites in the capital and south east England.

Hundreds of extra officers are patrolling predominantly Islamic areas, including
those close to mosques, to protect Muslims from potential attacks by right-wing
extremists.

There are also extra patrols in the City of London and armed officers outside
potential targets in the capital's financial centre.

Undercover officers are also monitoring airports, ports and rail stations as
they continue their hunt for terrorist suspects.

The security operation in London following the September 11 attacks is thought
to be costing up to pounds 1m a week.

Senior anti-terrorist officers have warned of possible further follow-up attacks
by other terror groups unconnected to Osama bin Laden.

Scotland Yard's ongoing contingency planning has in the past looked at how to
cope with disasters including a gas attack on the London Underground and a jumbo
jet landing on the capital.

The Association of Chief Police Officers (ACPO) has advised forces elsewhere in
the country to monitor the current situation and keep in touch with ACPO
centrally.

Oil companies have also been reviewing security.

A spokesman for Shell said: "Ever since September 11, we have reviewed our
security across the group.

"That's an ongoing process but for obvious security reasons we don't discuss
what those measures are."

Experts said the private security industry had received a rush of calls from
companies looking for anti-terrorist advice.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              300 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                                October 9, 2001

Extra security remains in force

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 269 words


EXTRA security measures remained in place across Britain today in an attempt to
prevent possible terrorist reprisals.

Dozens of armed police officers and teams using hidden video cameras have been
stationed at potential terrorist targets.

About 1,500 extra police officers have been drafted on to the streets of London.

Mayor of London Ken Livingstone has discussed security measures with
Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir John Stevens.

Mr Livingstone said: "It is clear that, while there is no specific threat,
London is a target. There is a general threat, and as a city we would be foolish
not to take extra precautions."

Islamic extremists living in London warned that Downing Street could be a target
for terrorist attacks.

Abdul Rehman Saleem, a spokesman for the fundamentalist group Al Muhajiroun,
said: "The British now need to realise their military institutions and
personnel, including government buildings such as 10 Downing Street, are
legitimate targets for attack."

Speaking in Parliament yesterday evening, Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "We
must safeguard our country too. Our first responsibility is the safety of the
public.

"Since September 11 every one of our arrangements has been under scrutiny. We
have extensive contingency planning in place in Britain. "We are doing all we
reasonably can to anticipate the nature of and thwart any potential reprisal.

"As yet there is no specific, credible threat that we know of against Britain,
but we would be foolish to be anything other than highly vigilant, though as the
experience of the USA shows it is not an easy task."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              301 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 9, 2001

Attack on Afghanistan : Peace calls: CND vigil at Commons: Anti-war groups widen
protests

BYLINE: Stuart Millar

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 295 words


The British anti-war movement shifted into high gear last night with a
nationwide series of vigils and demonstrations against the bombing of
Afghanistan.

A vigil organised by CND was held outside parliament to coincide with the
emergency Commons debate, while the Stop the War Coalition staged protests in
cities including London, Manchester, Glasgow, Birmingham and Newcastle.

The anti-war groups say there is huge unease among the public about Britain's
involvement in the bombing campaign. CND has gathered 46,000 signatures on a
petition against military action, while more than 3,000 turned out for a protest
at Downing Street last week.

The launch of the bombing campaign has increased the pressure on the diverse
range of groups opposed to military action - which includes trade unionists,
pacifists, anti-globalisation campaigners and political organisations - to
present a united front.

A national demonstration against the war, involving all the various groupings
under the umbrella banner of "Justice and peace for all", will take place in
London on Saturday.

But the majority of events are being organised separately by individual groups.

Last night, Kate Hudson, vice-chair of CND, met the Labour MPs Tam Dalyell and
Bob Marshall-Andrews before the Commons debate to ask them to urge the prime
minister to end Britain's involvement in the bombing.

Ms Hudson said: "Military action of the kind that was begun last night won't
stop terrorist attacks. Punitive bombing raids in which civilians are killed and
injured will not bring the perpetrators of September 11 to justice."

The Stop the War Coalition described the missile attacks as "acts of war wholly
outside all accepted legal, democratic and civilised norms".


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              302 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: HITTING TARGET: 31 HITS;
 -TALIBAN AIRFIELDS, PLANES, CAMPS, TROOPS, BASES STRUCK -SADDAM MAY BE THE NEXT
TARGET, AMERICA HINTS TO UN -RUMSFELD: 'BOMBS WON'T SOLVE THIS..IT WILL TAKE
YEARS'

BYLINE: Andy Lines In Washington

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 768 words

HIGHLIGHT: SHRAPNEL: Locals hold bits of US and British bombs; SUCCESS: Donald;
RumsfeldCASUALTY: Young Afghan hurt at Jalalabad airport; CLEARING UP:; Afghans
yesterday begin to remove the debris from what they claim was a house in Kabul
hit by the allies. But US and Britain deny it


THE US and Britain blasted 31 key targets inside Afghanistan in the first wave
of attacks, military chiefs said yesterday.

Military airfields, planes, Taliban command centres and al-Qaeda terrorist
training camps were all wiped out in Operation Enduring Freedom on Sunday. Most
were left in smoking piles of rubble.

And last night the US ambassador to the United Nations, John Negroponte, said
that the strikes could be extended.

He said in a letter to the UN Security Council: "We may find that our self
-defense requires further actions with respect to other organisations and other
states."

That would include Iraq which President Bush's advisers believe was involved in
the terrorist attacks.

In Sunday's strikes, dozens of cruise missiles, launched from both air and sea,
reached targets as planned. It was also confirmed for the first time that troops
belonging to the Taliban and Osama bin Laden were hit. The military command
centre of the Taliban regime in the southern city of Kandahar was razed to the
ground.

The high-walled compound of Taliban leader Mullah Mohammed Omar was badly
damaged, with smoke billowing from the ruins.

Last night the Pentagon was reviewing satellite pictures to see exactly how
successful the raids had been. The US is pursuing a "shoot-look-shoot" policy,
with planes returning to targets that escaped first time around.

President Bush said the first phase of the mission was "executed as planned".

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld called the raids "very successful" but
suggested there was still much to do.

He said: "It is very unlikely that the air strikes will rock the Taliban back on
their heels. The Soviet Union pounded it year after year after year. Much of the
country is now rubble. These strikes are part of a much larger effort against
worldwide terrorism, one that will be sustained and which is wide-ranging. It
will likely be sustained for years, not weeks or months.

"We will not stop until the terrorist networks are destroyed. To that end,
regimes that harbour terrorists and their training camps should know that they
will suffer penalties. Our goal is not one individual. It is not one group."

But British Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon was more optimistic and predicted the
first phase of the attacks would be over shortly.

He said last night: "It is more likely to be a matter of days rather than weeks.
We are hoping the strikes deliver the situation we want to see - an end to the
Taliban and an end to their support for Osama bin Laden and his network."

Mr Rumsfeld insisted that all the targets were military.

But the Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Zaeef, claimed eight people were
killed in Kabul. This was denied by Mr Rumsfeld, who said: "The statements by
the Taliban are typically lies...they have claimed that they have shot down some
airplanes, which was false, and they claimed there was collateral damage, which
was false."

But it seemed at least one residential property was hit, with no casualties.

On Kabul damage, he said forces attacked only specific targets on the outskirts
of the city.

But one young Afghan Assadullah, 16, claimed he was hurt in the attack on
Jalabad airport on Sunday.

General Richard Myers, chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff, said the
attacks had been successful in their mission to "disrupt and destroy the
terrorists' infrastructure."

He said the broad category of targets included "early-warning radar, ground
forces, command control facilities, al-Qaeda infrastructure, aircraft and
airfields".

He was "generally pleased" with the first day of the war. Not a single American
plane was lost. One defence official gave further indication this was just the
start of a lengthy war when he referred to the last 24 hours as "baby step one".

Bush won widespread support in the US for the attacks. Polls showed 94 per cent
of people supported him.

The president added: "On all fronts, we're going to be relentless as we tighten
the net of justice."

His aides said he saw the video of Osama bin Laden arrogantly gloating over the
attacks on the United States. Bush was talking at the White House as he presided
over the swearing-in of Tom Ridge as the director of the Office of Homeland
Security. This is a new Cabinet post charged with preventing future attacks.

The former Pennsylvania governor said: "The size and scope of this challenge are
immense."

Airports, sports stadiums, state capitals and office buildings heightened
security precautions that had already been stepped up since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              303 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 9, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: HITTING TARGET I: RISH URGED TO GET OUT OF PAKISTAN

BYLINE: Allison Bray

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 265 words


MORE than 60 Irish nationals living in Pakistan were last night urged to leave
the area following the air strikes on Afghanistan.

Sixty-three Irish people - especially those living in the northwest provinces
near the Afghan border - are being advised by the Foreign Affairs department to
get out.

There are no Irish nationals living in Afghanistan other than a handful of
journalists covering the war and aid workers assisting Afghan refugees fleeing
the area.

Irish citizens were also urged not to travel to the region as American and
British forces continue to wage war with the Taliban and Osama bin Laden in
response to the September 11 terrorist attacks in America.

Those travelling abroad were also advised to "exercise extreme caution and
vigilance" in the event of possible retaliation by Islamic terrorists elsewhere
in the world.

The move came as security was stepped up in Britain yesterday out of fear that
the UK could be the next target of terrorist attacks.

Gardai said no such measures have been taken here, although security has been
improved at the British and American embassies in Dublin as well as top American
businesses.

Security has also been stepped up at key Irish landmarks, including the Dail and
other government buildings. A spokesman said: "We have been on a heightened
state of alert since September 11."

Army spokesman Comdt Kieran McDaid added that the army has also been put on high
alert.

He said: "There hasn't been a direct threat to Ireland but we are on the edge of
Europe and there may be an indirect impact."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              304 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                 UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Bradford

                                October 9, 2001

Muslim leaders split over missile strikes.

BYLINE: Andrew Hebden (author email andrew.hebden@bradford.newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 252 words

DATELINE: Bradford,Bingley,Shipley,Spen Valley


Bradford Muslim leaders were today divided in their reaction to last night's air
strikes on Afghanistan.

Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council for Mosques, said it had been a "
terrorist attack" which would increase the suffering of innocent people.

But the head of the Pakistan Society of West Yorkshire, Rashid Awan, claimed
Britain and America had been left with "no option" and urged Muslims in Bradford
to "show loyalty to their country".

Mr Azam said: "Terrorism is something which has to be condemned whether it is
committed by individuals, groups of people, by states or by groups of states. It
is still a terrorist attack.

"This is what we have feared for some time since the attack in America. We
condemned that attack and we were sad for the innocent people who suffered.

"But this further attack will only add to that suffering. The people in
Afghanistan for the last two or three decades have already been suffering and
this will add more misery, bloodshed and loss of life."

But Rashid Awan said the Taliban rulers had been given their chance to surrender
bin Laden and must now pay the price.

He said: "There was no other way. It was a tragic incident in New York and these
terrorists must be stopped."

Mr Awan criticised protesters in Pakistan who have taken to the streets to
campaign against the air strikes. "Tony Blair has said clearly that this is not
a war on Islam and I believe him. My message to Pakistani people here is to show
loyalty to your country."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              305 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 9, 2001

Pakistan in Test torment

BYLINE: Mike Sinclair

SECTION: Sport, Pg.42

LENGTH: 187 words


PAKISTAN could be forced to play 'home' Test matches on foreign soil as a result
of the military action in Afghanistan.

With the United States and Britain launching air strikes on Afghanistan,
Pakistan may have to play on neutral venues to guarantee the safety of players.

"Obviously the current situation is a huge problem, " Malcolm Gray, president of
the International Cricket Council said yesterday.

"Our hope is that it might be short and sharp and we can get over it quickly.
But if the situation continues it will cause enormous problems logistically and
financially for the game."

New Zealand and Sri Lanka have cancelled tours to Pakistan because of turmoil
caused there by the terrorist attack in the USA.

The ICC are anxious to keep Pakistan playing international cricket and Gray
said: "It's possible their home matches could be played at independent venues if
that becomes necessary."

However England and Wales Cricket Board chief executive Tim Lamb insisted the
England tour to India next month will "definitely go ahead" barring any massive
change in the political situation.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              306 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 8, 2001

Countries link up to fight terrorist threat;
 War on Terrorism: FRAGILE BOND: galvanised by terror, the world backs attack

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 669 words


ACTION against Afghanistan is backed by a vast international alliance.

India and Pakistan, Israel and her Arab neighbours - traditional foes have all
offered support to varying degrees.

But how long the alliance will stay together - particularly if things go wrong
and Afghan civilians are killed - remains to be seen.

Shoring up the coalition has required hard work.

Barely 24 hours before the attacks began, Tony Blair returned from a second
gruelling round of shuttle diplomacy during which he clocked up thousands of
miles.

United States Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld also launched a diplomatic
offensive in the days leading up to the first attacks, visiting the wavering
desert kingdom of Saudi Arabia, where fears of a fundamentalist backlash are
thought to have been behind a softening of support for action.

Despite some setbacks, the two allies built an unprecedented coalition in the
wake of the September 11 terrorist attacks.

Galvanised by the horror, countries from around the world rallied behind the
call for a war on terrorism.

The diplomatic offensive ensured that if Afghanistan refused to hand over prime
suspect Osama bin Laden, they would face America's wrath effectively alone.

Traditional allies such as Britain immediately pledged support in President
George Bush's fight to smash the terror machine which slaughtered thousands of
innocent people.

Nato involvement was guaranteed when ambassadors from the 19 member nations
invoked Article Five of the organisation's Charter, declaring the attack on
America to be an attack on the Alliance as a whole.

However, the sustained diplomatic effort secured support for military action
stretching far beyond the long-standing transatlantic alliance.

Russia, which waged its own ill-fated war in Afghanistan, ruled out committing
troops but is thought to have helped US intelligence services in their searched
for bin Laden.

China, the major power most likely to speak out against the American plans,
instead said it would support the fight against terrorism and voiced only
limited reservations, warning military action could prove counter-productive.

Sustained pressure from the US brought about a ceasefire between Israel and the
Palestinians - helping to isolate Afghanistan's ruling Taliban from potential
Arab allies.

Keen not to be seen as frustrating the US efforts, both offered support for
President Bush's war.

Uzbekistan, which borders Afghanistan, offered to act as a base for American
troops.

Neighbouring Tajikistan ruled out allowing ground attacks but said air corridors
were a possibility.

India's enthusiastic offer to commit troops was politely declined for fear of
disturbing the sensitive relationship with Pakistan, as it negotiated with the
Taliban.

Despite the grave internal problems thrown up by co-operating with the US,
Pakistan's military government was under no illusions that if it failed to
assist it would be treated as the terrorists' ally.

As the world lined up behind America the Taliban quickly ran out of potential
friends to turn to for support.

Even so-called rogue states accused of sponsoring terrorism, such as Libya and
Syria, have not spoken out against US strikes.

Syria condemned the "barbarism" of the jetliner attacks while Libyan leader
Colonel Gaddafi said President Bush was right to hit back.

And the United Arab Emirates, one of just three countries to recognise the
Taliban, said it was reviewing its relations with Afghanistan's rulers.

Yemen, which along with Pakistan makes up that trio and has close links with
Osama bin Laden, said it would only support action authorised by the United
Nations.

Iraq alone appeared happy to completely defy President Bush's challenge to stand
with or against him.

But sanctions have crippled Saddam Hussein's country since it was defeated by
George Bush senior in the Gulf War and there is little Iraq can do to help the
Taliban as America exacts its revenge.

LOAD-DATE: October 10, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              307 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: NATIONS ON RED ALERT;
 EXTRA POLICE HIT STREETS IN BRITAIN AND US TO GUARD AGAINST NEW TERROR ATTACK
THREAT SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT SECURE: Dick Cheney HIGH SECURITY: Extra police
officers have been stationed at potential terrorist targets, including the
Houses of; Parliament and Buckingham Palace as a result of the attacks SECOND
TIME; UNLUCKY: The American Emmy Awards, postponed after the September 11
attacks, were cancelled again last night in the wake of the military action

SECTION: Pg. 10, 11

LENGTH: 451 words


EXTRA police officers are being drafted on to British streets following the
start of the military action against Afghanistan.

Police will patrol potentially vulnerable parts of the capital in an effort to
guard against possible terrorist attacks and to reassure the public as security
throughout the country was stepped up.

A spokesman said: 'The Metropolitan Police Service is closely monitoring events
which are unfolding and we have been vigorously planning for a range of threats
which may impact upon London.

'High visibility policing will continue and additional security is also being
introduced in potentially vulnerable areas where needed.'

Heightened

Teams using hidden video equipment have been stationed at locations including
Heathrow Airport, the Houses of Parliament and Buckingham Palace.

Meanwhile, America was also today in a heightened state of alert and the Emmy
awards, television's equivalent of the Oscars ceremony, were cancelled after the
first strikes.

In New York, the principal target of the September 11 terror strikes, security
at airports was stepped up and extra police officers deployed onto the streets,
but life continued largely as normal.

There had been reports that a complete 'lock-down' of the city had been planned
when the first military action took place but Mayor Rudolph Giuliani decided to
keep the city moving.

National Guard troops were also being deployed for the first time at many
airports across the country, including the busiest hubs.

The soldiers, the equivalent of the Territorial Army, had been deployed over the
last few days and arrived at many airports for the first time today.

Americans have been warned there is a '100 per cent' chance of more terrorist
attacks.

Security precautions have included closing off streets around the White House,
preventing parking in front of government buildings and searching everyone who
goes into high-profile buildings.

As a precaution, vice-president Dick Cheney was taken from the White House to a
secure secret location.

Today is Columbus Day, a holiday which traditionally includes a parade in New
York. The parade was due to go ahead unchanged and will be the biggest gathering
of people in New York since the destruction of the twin towers.

Fears that military strikes on Afghanistan could trigger angry protests in
Indonesia have prompted a warning to Britons in the country to stay inside their
homes, the Foreign Office said today.

It said a reaction was 'likely' in the strongly Muslim country and advised
against non-essential travel to the country, except to Bali, but was not
advising Britons already in Indonesia to leave the country.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              308 of 500 DOCUMENTS


                                  Burton Mail

                             October 8, 2001 Monday

Hospitals and airport on alert

BYLINE: MAIL REPORTERS

LENGTH: 390 words


HOSPITALS in Burton and Derbyshire were on a war footing today to deal with
possible British and American casualties brought into East Midlands Airport.

Burton's Queen's Hospital and the Derbyshire Royal Infirmary and Derby City
hospitals said they had plans in place "should the need arise". UK hospitals
were ordered to step up their contingency plans for major casualties as Britain
braced itself for war following the terrorist attacks in America on September
11. Queen's spokesman Deryck Wilson said: "We have contingency plans to deal
with any major incident which may arise. "These plans have not been changed in
the light of recent events, though all hospitals have been asked to 'revisit'
their contingency plans to ensure we are prepared to react to any developments."
The move came in the wake of air strikes against Taliban strongholds in
Afghanistan, which began yesterday.

The attacks received widespread support from MPs but there was deep concern
among Burton and South Derbyshire's Muslim community for the fate of civilians.
Maqsood Hussain, chairman of Burton's Pakistani Community Centre in Uxbridge
Street, said: "The attack was expected because the American people wanted action
against the terrorists behind the World Trade Centre attack. "What happened in
America was a tragedy against innocent people and it is sad that more innocent
people in Afghanistan will probably lose their lives. "We can only hope that it
will be over quickly and that innocent people are not made the victims again.".
South Derbyshire MP Mark Todd, who will be attending an emergency session of
Parliament called by the Prime Minister for 6pm today, said he had hoped the
Taliban would give up terrorist mastermind Osama Bin Laden but that America had
given the Taliban long enough before taking military action. Burton MP Janet
Dean said: "I know that many residents of Burton in the Muslim community will be
concerned about relatives in Pakistan and Afghanistan. I hope that the Muslim
community in Pakistan and throughout the world will accept that our fight is
with Osama Bin Laden and the terrorists, and not with them. "I support the
action which has been taken. It is important that those responsible for the
terrorist attacks in America are brought to justice. It is a very serious step
to take but I believe there was no alternative."

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2009

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: BM


                    Copyright 2001 Iliffe News and Media Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Gloucestershire Echo

                                October 8, 2001

AGENCY: AGENCY

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 333 words


Strikes were well planned

SUPPORT for the military strike on Afghanistan remains "overwhelming", Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw said today.

Speaking at RAF Northolt in north-west London before flying to Luxembourg for a
meeting of EU foreign ministers, he also insisted the strikes had been carefully
planned.

Mr Straw stressed the support he had received from foreign leaders during a
flurry of calls last night.

He said: "Without exception there is overwhelming support for this action by the
military coalition of the United States and Great Britain."

He said that he had reassured United Nations Secretary-General Kofi Annan that
the action was "proportionate" and the targeting "careful".

The UN Security Council of the UN will be briefed about the campaign later
today, said Mr Straw, who also confirmed there had been no British casualties in
the action.

The Foreign Secretary played down fears that the military strikes might provoke
a terrorist attack on the UK in retaliation.

He said: "We've no specific information about anything specifically targeted in
the UK by terrorists. We ask people to be vigilant and calm and go about their
normal business. That's the only way of defeating the terrorists, to go about
business as usual."

He emphasised that this was not simply a military action against the Taliban but
that "overwhelming" humanitarian aid would be poured into the country for the
starving millions who have suffered under the "brutality and incompetence" of
their leaders.

Later the Foreign Secretary said the military campaign would not be over within
days and would continue until its objectives were met.

He said the removal of the Taliban regime was not one of the specific aims of
the action.

He said: "We hope very much that a consequence of this action is that the
Taliban do leave power, indeed we think that is likely to be the case."

He refused to speculate on whether other countries could become secondary
targets of the military campaign.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Gloucestershire Echo

                              310 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

AIR STRIKES ON AFGHANISTAN: TOUR OPERATORS: AIRTOURS CUTS 2,000 JOBS AS BOOKINGS
LANGUISH

BYLINE: Nigel Cope City Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 493 words


BRITAIN'S BIGGEST holiday company is to cut 2,000 jobs as a result of falling
bookings since the 11 September terrorist attacks.

Airtours, which owns the Going Places travel agencies and the Airtours airline,
estimates that 300 to 400 of the jobs will go in the UK. About 850 jobs have
already been cut in its US division. Others are planned in Germany Scandinavia.

The cuts come after 1,100 redundancies announced last week by First Choice
Holidays. Airtours had already cut 3,000 employees, or 10 per cent of its
workforce, in the year before the terrorist attacks.

Tim Byrne, the Airtours' chief executive, said: "We have lost 10 per cent of our
workforce in the past 12 months and we will have to have more. We have written
to all our staff in the UK, Scandinavia and America, and we are going through a
period of consultation." He warned that further redundancies could not be ruled
out if holiday bookings did not pick up after Christmas. He said: "This is on
the basis that it's bad until December and demand kicks up again in January. If
it doesn't, we'll have to review things again."

Airtours says that although few people are cancelling holidays which have
already been booked, forward bookings are down significantly.

Summer bookings for next year are down by 60 per cent, though this is a quiet
period for reservations anyway. Bookings to winter-sun destinations including
Israel, Egypt and Turkey have dried up. The firm has been forced to cut prices
by up to 40 per cent in some cases just to fill its aircraft.

Airtours and First Choice have issued profit warnings in the past two weeks
saying that the attacks on the US would hit their profits by an estimated pounds
10m. Both companies have cut holiday capacity for the first half of the winter
season by between 10 and 15 per cent.

First Choice has also cut its capacity for next summer by 25 per cent, and
Airtours says it has the flexibility in its system to do the same.

Travel to destinations in the US has been particularly badly hit, with bookings
to Florida down by 50 per cent. Bookings to other resorts are down by nearly
one-third.

Travel industry experts believe the slump in demand will force a number of
smaller independent travel agencies and tour operators to the wall. The holiday
industry is a low-margin business that relies on high volumes to make profits.
This means a significant slump in demand can cause immediate cash-flow problems.

Even the biggest companies have been delaying investment plans, to save money.
Airtours has put pounds 100m of capital expenditure on hold this year. "If the
hotels haven't had a lick of paint, then they'll have to go without one. We are
not going to spend the money now," Mr Byrne said.

The travel industry is nervous, however, that one of its number might upset the
delicate balance by slashing the cost of its holidays to gain market share.

Airtours chief profiled, Business, page 17

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              311 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 08, 2001

US and British war planes launch attack on Taliban;
 War on the Taliban

BYLINE: By Amir Shah in Kabul

SECTION:  Pg. 2

LENGTH: 742 words


THUNDEROUS explosions and the rattle of anti-aircraft fire were heard last night
in the Afghan capital, Kabul, as the US and Britain launched a military attack
in Afghanistan.

The country's ruling Taliban militia declared the assault a "terrorist attack"
and said alleged terrorist mastermind Osama bin Laden and Taliban leader Mullah
Mohammed Omar had survived.

Electricity was shut off throughout Kabul for more than two hours after the
attack, which began just after nightfall.

The southern Afghan city of Kandahar, headquarters of the Taliban and home of
Mullah Omar, was also hit and the airport control tower was damaged, a Taliban
source said by telephone.

The source said several explosions occurred in the eastern city of Jalalabad but
he did not have further details.

Qatar's Al-Jazeera television said the strikes destroyed the Taliban
headquarters in Kandahar. Al-Jazeera is often one of the first sources of
information on bin Laden.

In Pakistan, Taliban ambassador Abdul Salam Zaeef said bin Laden, the main
suspect for the terrorist attacks on New York and attacks, and Mullah Omar
survived.

"By the grace of God, Mullah Omar and bin Laden are alive, " Zaeef said. He did
not elaborate and did not say whether either leader was near the scene of last
night's attacks.

The first explosions could be heard in Kabul at about 1727 BST. Five large
explosions shook the city, followed by the sounds of anti-aircraft fire.

Power went off throughout the Afghan capital almost immediately after the first
of the thunderous blasts, which appeared to have been in the southwest of the
city.

The southwestern part of Kabul includes the Darulaman Palace, an ancient royal
residence, and the Balahisar Fort, an old Mogul style installation.

The firing tapered off for a few minutes but resumed after a jet aircraft could
be heard passing over the city.

A Taliban official in Kabul said: "We are under attack. They bombed in the south
of Kabul. Our guns are firing."

The official, who gave his name only as Mudir, gave no further details.

The private, Islamabad-based Afghan Islamic Press agency quoted the Taliban as
saying American planes had bombed areas near the Kabul airport in the northern
part of the city.

The agency said there were no details of casualties and no reports of damage to
the city itself. It added, however, that "huge smoke is rising near Kabul
airport."

Electricity was restored in Kabul more than two hours after the attack and the
city was quiet, with no sign of panic.

Kabul's one million people are inured to war after more than two decades of
relentless fighting which has destroyed most of the city.

Earlier, the Taliban had made an eleventh hour appeal to prevent US attacks:
They offered to arrest bin Laden and try him under Islamic law if the United
States made a formal request.

The Bush administration quickly rejected the Taliban proposal, with White House
spokesman Scott McClellan saying President Bush's demands "are clear and
non-negotiable''.

Washington has also rejected Afghanistan's attempt to use eight jailed foreign
aid workers as bargaining chips to pressure the United States to halt its
planned anti-terrorist offensive.

The eight aid workers in Kabul - four Germans, two Americans and two Australians
- were arrested in August on charges of trying to convert Muslims to
Christianity.

In a statement before the US attacks began, the Taliban said they had sent
thousands of troops to the border with Uzbekistan, whose president has allowed
US troops use of an air base for the anti-terrorism campaign.

Those claims about sending troops to the Uzbekistan border could not be
independently verified.

However, Russia's Interfax news agency reported on Saturday that Taliban troops
were moving long-range artillery and multiple rocket launchers toward the
border.

More than 10 guns and rocket launchers had moved within range of the Uzbek
border town of Termez, Interfax said, .

The Taliban are estimated to have some 40,000 fighters - around a quarter of
them from bin Laden's organisation - and many of those are involved in fighting
a coalition of opposition forces in northern Afghanistan.

The Taliban's enemies had made little progress against the larger, better-armed
Taliban, but their fortunes have been bolstered since the September 11 attacks
with a decision by Russia to step up weapons shipments.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CALL TO ARMS: In a video image taken yesterday from the Arabic
television station Al Jazeera, terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden calls on
Muslims across the world to join in a war with America. The station claimed that
the speech had also been filmed yesterday PICTURE: PA Photos WAR NIGHT: A
picture caught from Arabic television shows ground fire from the ground in Kabul
seeking out attacking American war planes

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              312 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                                October 08, 2001

Cruise missiles strike Kabul;
 War on the Taliban

SECTION:  Pg. 3

LENGTH: 538 words


OPERATION Enduring Freedom was launched last night The US and Britain unleashed
cruise missile strikes against military installations and Osama bin Laden's
training camps across Afghanistan, fighting back after the worst terrorist
attacks on American soil.

President Bush said the attacks were "carefully targeted" counter-strikes
against Afghanistan's Taliban regime, its military installations and terrorist
training camps.

"We are supported by the collective will of the world, " said Mr Bush, speaking
from the White House as missiles found their targets in Kabul, the Afghan
capital.

The Taliban ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, called the assault a
terrorist attack and said America "will never achieve its goal".

A senior Pentagon official said Tomahawk cruise missiles were launched from
American and British vessels, including American submarines, in the Arabian Sea.

The official said targets included air defences, military communications sites
and terrorist training camps inside Afghanistan.

"This is going to be a prolonged, sustained effort over several days, " the
official said.

Mr Bush cited the participation of British forces in the initial assault as
evidence of the unity the administration has laboured to build in the wake of
the September 11 attacks that killed more than 5,000 people in New York and
Washington.

The president said: "Other close friends, including Canada, Australia, Germany
and France, have pledged forces as the operation unfolds."

From London, Prime Minister Tony Blair said: "We have set the objectives to
eradicate Osama bin Laden's network of terror and to take action against the
Taliban regime that is harbouring them."

"The Taliban were given the choice of siding with justice or siding with terror.
They chose to side with terror, " he said.

Mr Bush spoke less than an hour after the first explosion could be heard in
Kabul, followed by the sounds of anti-aircraft fire. Power went off throughout
the city almost immediately after the first of five thunderous blasts.

The president said the military strike would be accompanied by the delivery of
food, medicine and other supplies needed to sustain the people of Afghanistan.

He said the strike was aimed at the Taliban, the ruling regime that harbours bin
Laden, long identified by administration officials as the mastermind behind last
month's attacks in the United States.

The president had issued a series of demands in the days following the strikes
on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon - all of them ignored.

"Now the Taliban will pay a price, " he vowed.

"Today we focus on Afghanistan. But the battle is broader and we will not fail,
" Mr Bush said.

A video of Osama bin Laden, said to be have been made inside Afghanistan
yesterday, was broadcast by the Al-Jazeera TV station in Qatar last night.

He said in a statement read by an aide that war against Afghanistan and bin
Laden is "a war on Islam".

Bin Laden was shown dressed in fatigues and an Afghan headdress, sitting quietly
next to his spokesman.

"What happened in the United States is a natural reaction to the ignorant policy
of the United States, " the statement read.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WAR FOOTING: A F-14 Tomcat serviced aboard the USS Enterprise in the
Indian Ocean PICTURE: Jochel Finck

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              313 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: THE KEY TARGETS: BRITAIN ON RED ALERT

BYLINE: Fiona Cummins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 212 words


SECURITY across London was stepped up last night following growing fears of a
terrorist attack on the capital.

Buckingham Palace, the Houses of Parliament, Heathrow airport and the US Embassy
were under armed guard.

Extra police were drafted in to Downing Street after a small group of anti-war
protesters gathered to yell slogans and demand an end to military action.

Police were also on 24-hour alert at Canary Wharf, home to major financial
institutions.

Scotland Yard said last night: "We have been vigorously planning for a range of
threats.

"High visibility policing will continue and additional security is being
introduced to potentially vulnerable areas where needed."

Some 1,500 extra police have been patrolling the capital since the attacks on
September 11.

Alex Standish, editor of Jane's Intelligence Digest, said Britain would be on
heightened alert for many weeks to come.

Mr Standish said: "Britain's position at the side of America will make our
interests at home and abroad a more likely target.

He also warned against chemical or biological attack.

He said: "This is not a traditional enemy and there will be additional security
at water purification plants, the Underground and around communication
facilities."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              314 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 08, 2001

Blair claims clear imperative for war;

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 259 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair claimed yesterday that it is "essential" for Britain's
interests to tackle terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden and those seen as his
allies.

Writing in the News of the World in an attempt to bolster support for looming
military strikes against Afghanistan, Mr Blair argued that there was a practical
as well as moral imperative for action.

"If we failed to act, the risk is simple and direct - more British lives lost
through terrorism, " he wrote.

"Attacks in the past have been thwarted by our security forces.

"But in the end, real success will only come from eradicating the network of
terror behind the September 11 attacks."

Mr Blair added that the number of Afghan refugees would only increase unless
stability was brought to their country, although some aid organisations argue
that the threat of military strikes has greatly exacerbated the problem.

Labour MP Chris Mullin warned that the approaching winter could spell doom for
the millions of displaced people in the region.

"Nothing will undermine the international coalition more than the sight of
millions of people starving in Afghanistan this winter, " he said.

Home Secretary David Blunkett joined Mr Blair in preparing the British people
for war.

Mr Blunkett urged the public to steel itself for military strikes.

"I would like people, over the next few days, just to repicture, as I do in my
imagination, the planes full of innocent people going into the World Trade
Centre on September 11, " the Home Secretary said.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

GRAPHIC: WAR FOOTING: Tony Blair

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              315 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 08, 2001

Tories look to Europe over services;
 Tory leader probes reform options

BYLINE: by DAN O'NEILL

SECTION:  Pg. 5

LENGTH: 325 words


EUROSCEPTIC Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith ordered his shadow cabinet yesterday
to pack its bags and scour Europe for ways to change Britain's public services.

He told his opposition team to examine how the private sector, charities and
voluntary bodies are involved in Continental provision of services.

Mr Duncan Smith is hoping to capitalise on opposition among unions and Labour
activists to Prime Minister Tony Blair's plans to increase private sector
involvement.

The newly elected leader leader declared, on the eve of the party conference in
Blackpool, that the Tories would not be restrained by traditional allegiance to
"outdated structures and dogma.

"We should think what is best for the people who use the public services, not
just those who run them, " he wrote in an article for the Blackpool Gazette Mr
Duncan Smith will also attempt to distance himself from his mentor Baroness
Thatcher, claiming that her legacy is "valuable, " but insisting that it is now
in the past.

The party faced embarrassment last week when the former premier accused
Britain's Muslim leaders of failing to condemn the terrorist attacks in the US
strongly enough.

Conservative vice-chairman Gary Streeter insisted that Baroness Thatcher had a
only "small part" to play in the party's future, although he praised her as a
"fantastic prime minister, " whose reforms had paved the way for the Blair
government.

Despite the Tories' lurch to the right and controversy surrounding infiltration
of the party by far-right groups, Mr Streeter claimed that Conservatives were
"much more tolerant and inclusive" than during the Thatcher years.

Following the US tragedy, the Conservative delegates will be protected by nearly
a thousand police officers, costing over a million pounds.

The main test for Mr Duncan Smith at the shortened conference will come on
Wednesday, when he delivers his keynote speech to the party faithful.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              316 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

WELSH LEADERS GIVE POLITICAL SUPPORT FOR ATTACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 320 words


leaders across Wales united today to support the Afghanistan air strikes to
flush out Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect behind the US terrorist attacks.

First Minister Rhodri Morgan spoke of his relief at the "war with a conscience"
in which fighter planes were also dropping aid during bombing missions for the
people of Afghanistan.

He said: "I am glad to see this is not a one dimensional military campaign, but
that great emphasis has been placed on the humanitarian aspect. The Afghan
people have suffered greatly for the last 20 years. They cannot and should not
be blamed for the actions of Osama bin Laden and the Taliban regime."

Welsh Liberal Democrat leader Lembit Opik said: "Although we all knew military
action was certain to occur, now it has started we have to hope it is not too
much, too late.

"We have to recognise that attacking bin Laden's strongholds is not a
declaration of war against the Afghan people. It is about terrorism.

"It does seem essential that any action is backed up by humanitarian support for
those who will have been displaced, otherwise we will make more enemies than we
started with."

The Conservative Party conference was starting as planned today, despite the
bombing.

Welsh Party chairman Henri Lloyd Davies said: "It is very important to discuss
international issues very much in our minds at the moment. We must not be seen
to be intimidated by the terrorists."

South Wales Central AM Jonathan Morgan said he would support moves to shorten
conference if they were deemed necessary.

Monmouth AM David Davies, who is also a member of the Territorial Army, added:
"We will play it by ear but the conference is secondary to what is going on in
Afghanistan.

We all knew what is happening was inevitable."

Deputy Welsh party chairwoman Carole Hyde said continuing with the conference
was important to show defiance to the terrorists.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT Rhodri Morgan and Lembit Opik were quick to voice their support
for the joint action taken by the USA and Britain

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              317 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 8, 2001, Monday

PEACE CAMPAIGNERS CONDEMN MILITARY ACTION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 240 words


PEACE campaigners in South Wales have condemned the military action by Britain
and the United States on Afghanistan.

David Morris, Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament Cymru chairman, today described
America's bombing of Afghanistan as "an act of terror".

He said: "CND Cymru deplores the bombing of Kabul and other targets in
Afghanistan.

"The attack on Kabul is an act of terror. As much as the attacks on the World
Trade Centre and Pentagon were acts of terror.

Modern war is centred on acts of mutual terror."

Mr Morris said the United States and Britain should have used diplomacy rather
than flexing their military muscle.

He added: "Negotiations would have sent a message to the Islamic world that we
will reason with people and wanted to resolve the conflict by any other means
than war.

"These attacks are also likely to intensify an already grave humanitarian crisis
in Afghanistan."

A march on Saturday in Cardiff city centre was organised by CND Cymru and South
East Wales Coalition to Stop the War.

Organisers said opinion polls taken since the September 11 outrages showed that
a majority of British people oppose any military attacks which would cause
civilian casualties.

The peace campaigners met in The Hayes and then marched to The Welsh Office, in
Cathays Park, where a rally was held.

Speakers included the CND Cymru chairman and Plaid Cymru Assembly Member Helen
Mary Jones.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPPOSING MILITARY ACTION The peace rally in Cardiff city centre at the
weekend.PICTURE: Malcolm Morgan

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              318 of 500 DOCUMENTS

            UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Brighton and Hove

                                October 8, 2001

War worry hasn't hit home prices.

BYLINE: Simon Freeman (author email simon.freeman@theargus.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 287 words

DATELINE: brighton__hove


Homebuyers in Sussex are standing firm in the wake of global conflict but could
be hit when the aftershock ripples down from London, a new survey says. House
prices in the South East are virtually alone in Britain in remaining unaffected
by fears of a recession, triggered by the terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington. Sales in other parts of the country have been slowing as buyers'
confidence is sapped despite mortgage rates reaching their lowest figure for a
generation. Brighton and Hove's buoyant market has so far shrugged off the
effects, according to the survey of 2,000 consumers commissioned by the Alliance
& Leicester. But the impact, including City job cuts and an end to big bonuses,
has hit sellers in the capital. Before the atrocities of September 11, 12 per
cent of homeowners planned to move in the next 12 months. Now that figure is
down to seven per cent. Properties at the top end of the market are worst-hit.
The knock-on effect will be felt particularly on the coast where many City
workers have their homes. The slowdown has also touched first-time buyers and
buy-to-let landlords who are waiting for the market to bottom out. Chris Spratt,
spokesman for regional branch of the Royal Institution of Chartered Surveyors,
said: "Clearly it would be imprudent to ignore the potential effects of all of
the international events which have taken place. "The impact on the airline
industry, with job losses at Gatwick, has a direct effect on our local economy.
"But I think the chemistry of low interest rates and low inflation is reflected
in a kind of underlying confidence topped with caution. "While everyone is
noticing a slowing down in the market it's certainly not stagnant."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              319 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 8, 2001

Measures overdue say Muslim leaders.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 380 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



MUSLIM leaders and campaigners for equality in East Lancashire have welcomed
moves by the Government to introduce measures to combat anti-Muslim hate crimes
in the wake of the terrorist attacks in the United States.

The hate crime move, announced by Home Secretary David Blunkett at the Labour
party conference, was designed to help protect the community from a backlash to
the September 11 terror attacks.

But local leaders, while welcoming the proposals, saw them as long overdue.

Ibrahim Masder, chair of the Lancashire Council of Mosques, which represents
more than 70 of the 100 mosques across Lancashire, said: "The proposals are
extremely welcome by the Muslim community across Britain.

"Muslims have been and are important to the social and economic life of Britain
and we are committed to increasing our contribution to the society in Britain.

"We have been trying to get the race relation laws changed so that Islam is also
accorded the same protection as other religions in this country. We are glad
that after so many years of trying that the Home Secretary has realised that we
ought to be accorded that same protection."

Mr Masder said that although there had been incidents of hate crimes across the
country, Lancashire had fared well. "The community relations in Lancashire are
very good because of the excellent work of both ourselves and groups like the
Anglican and Muslim Group, which promotes tolerance and co-operation."

Director of Blackburn Racial Equality Council Abdul Chowdry welcomed the
Government's proposals but said: "It is a long time coming really. I feel that
the last three weeks' incidents have set back community relations in this
country enormously. Suddenly, we have people who are fearful of the future. We
need reassurance really."

He added: "I think it is a welcome opportunity from a government of the time
thinking and knowing that there are issues based on people's religion. There was
a gap which existed in the law and this will help to fill that gap."

Mr Blunkett was to announce a widening of the law on incitement to tackle
religious as well as racial hatred covering all religions.

He also announced that he wanted to review the work permit system to help take
the heat out of the asylum debate.

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              320 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 8, 2001

WestMuslims'mixed reaction to strikes;
 WAR ON THE TALIBAN

BYLINE: Tim Lezard

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 298 words


MUSLIMS across Britain watched the attacks unfold with mixed feelings.

And those feelings were reflected in the West with a Muslim MP defending the US
and UK attacks while other local Muslims were against them.

Lal Mia, a 25-year-old Muslim from Gloucester, opposed last night's attack,
saying: "There are terrorists everywhere in the world; in Northern Ireland, all
over the place.

"The attack on America could have been done by anybody. I don't think they can
blame Afghanistan because they don't have enough proof."

"Tonight I shall be praying for the world and praying for peace."

Fellow Muslim, Awlad Ali, aged 35, also from Gloucester, was worried that last
night's raids would miss their target.

He said: "I agree something had to be done to stop the terrorists but I don't
want innocent people to be killed. I have every sympathy for those killed in
America because they were all innocent people. I also have every sympathy for
the innocent people in Afghanistan.

"If people think Muslims support the terrorist attack, they are wrong and they
don't understand the Muslim religion, which says we shouldn't hurt people.

"Gloucester is a good place to live. I haven't had any problems here at all.
Since the attack on America, though, my wife and four children have been
frightened. They see on the news and read in the papers that people in England
have been attacked because they are Muslim and now they are worried that they
might be attacked themselves."

Gloucester's MP, Parmjit Dhanda, defended Prime Minister Tony Blair's action.

Mr Dhanda who attended a meeting at the city's mosque at the weekend said:
"British Muslims did not see the September 11th terror attack on America as a
religious crime. They see it as simply a crime."

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              321 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 7, 2001, Sunday

BRITAIN CARRIES ON SHOPPING

BYLINE: Julia Snoddy

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 243 words


British consumers are fuelling the retail boom by spending on the high street,
seemingly unaffected by last month's terrorist attacks in America.

The British Retail Consortium will tomorrow release its figures on high- street
sales for September, and it is thought they will show a growth rate of at least
8 per cent compared to the previous year.

Retailers across the board said September - which often sees a fall in growth as
people save up after summer holidays and in preparation for Christmas - had been
a buoyant month in terms of sales.

"The day after the attacks there was a slowing in sales. But things have picked
up again," said a spokeswoman from a high-street retail chain.

Kevin Hawkins, Safeway's spokesman, said there was no sign of any "significant
downturn", and Nigel Wreford-Brown, merchandise director of John Lewis, said
trade had continued to be good.

"Our London store has seen a slight drop in sales but the trade across the
country remains good," said Mr Wreford-Brown.

Analysts expect GUS, which will this week post a trading update for its second
quarter, to show strong figures. Richard Ratner, retail analyst at Seymour
Pierce, said sales for last month will be strong.

According to a Confederation of British Industry survey, released last week, as
many as 62 per cent of retailers canvassed said sales for September were up
compared to a year ago. Just 8 per cent said there had been a fall.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              322 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 MAIL ON SUNDAY

                                October 7, 2001

Right time and price to escape

BYLINE: Fred Mawer

SECTION: Pg. 89

LENGTH: 543 words


EXCEPTIONALLY good travel deals abound at the moment as many people have decided
to forgo their holiday plans in the wake of the American terrorist attacks. Here
FRED MAWER investigates how to find the best bargains: HOTELS POSH hotels rely
heavily on highspending Americans, and many have stopped coming to Britain.

Lastminute.com's UK managing director, Helen Baker, says: 'Normally at this time
of year we have discounts of 30 per cent at a few top hotels, but now we have
more than 50 per cent off at many five-star hotels.' Examples include a double
room at Le Meridien Waldorf in London for GBP 109 (full rack rate GBP 323) and
Cliveden in Berkshire for GBP 170 (GBP 320).

There are equally enticing deals on www.laterooms.com.

American hotels are short of clientele too, with websites like www.quikbook.

com selling rooms in flashy New York hotels for around half price. The plushest
Las Vegas hotel, The Bellagio (www. bellagio.com), has rooms in November and
December for GBP 85 and specialist US operators, such as Bon Voyage (0800 980
7090), have reduced hotel rates.

FLIGHTS SINCE September 11 the cost of longhaul flights has not plummeted yet.

On transatlantic routes airlines have cut back on seats, but held off from
slashing fares. This may well change, but off-season economy fares to the States
have been rock bottom for several years, so there's not that much room for them
to drop.

The real bargains, experts say, may appear in business class.

Flying in Europe has become cheaper in the past three weeks.

Low-cost airlines have adopted the opposite tack to the likes of BA cutting
fares rather than seats.

Ryanair (www.ryanair.com), easyJet (www. easyjet.com) and Go (www.go-fly.com)
have been bringing out waves of discounts covering dozens of routes. The first
crop included many thousands of seats for around GBP 20 return. The latest, once
you've taken into account taxes, start at around GBP 40 return. For the best
offers, go to the airline websites rather than phoning them.

PACKAGES MAJOR tour operators are reporting a drop of 25 to 40 per cent in
bookings for the winter and next summer. The slump has particularly hit Florida
and destinations in the eastern Mediterranean which the public perceives to be
high risk, such as Egypt, Turkey and Cyprus. There is no hurry to book for next
year, however, prices are likely to drop in the coming months.

There are always plenty of lastminute deals in October to the Med outside
half-term week and the slowdown in bookings means that there is now a glut.

A trawl through www.teletext.

com revealed a week self-catering in Greece for GBP 69, Majorca for GBP 79, and
Cyprus and the Algarve for GBP 89.

Fortnight fly-drives to Florida were advertised for as little as GBP 59,
although there are hefty car insurance costs.

CRUISES THIS market is also in turmoil, not least because Americans who normally
supply ships with most of their business, are cancelling or not booking.

Cruise travel agent Seafarer Cruising and Sailing (01732 229900) is offering
discounts such as a week in the eastern Med with Festival Cruises in late
October for GBP 699 (was GBP 900) and 11 nights in January with MSC for GBP 899
(GBP 1,299).


LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              323 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 7, 2001

BRITISH FIREFIGHTERS TELL US HOW TO SAVE LIVES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6 7

LENGTH: 394 words


BRITISH firefighters are giving advice to New York's emergency services in a bid
to save lives in the event of a future terrorist attack on a city centre target.

Members of the Fire Brigades Union flew to America for top-secret talks in the
wake of the World Trade Center atrocity, in which 343 firefighters died.

A senior union source told the Sunday Express that many of those lives could
have been saved if the methods used by British firefighters had been used in New
York.

Britain's firefighters have a long record of saving proportionately more
civilians and losing fewer officers because of detailed planning for major
emergencies.

He said: "This is not about criticising their firefighters, who showed
extraordinary courage on the day.

This is about making sure we learn the lessons of what happened on September 11
so that they - and we - can be prepared if there is another attack of that sort
on a major target."

Firefighters in central London and every major city in Britain have been
specially trained to tackle terrorist attacks on large buildings, with
individual command plans for each skyscraper or major office block.

In the event of an attack on Canary Wharf in London's Docklands, which is half
the height of the World Trade Center, fire chiefs would set up a control centre
some distance from the scene, unlike New York fire bosses, who commanded the
rescue mission at the scene, which meant that many senior officers died when the
towers collapsed.

The union source, who has many years' experience as a frontline fire officer,
said: "The way British firefighters tackle major emergencies is completely
different from the way the American services do it.

"Our senior officials have been to New York to meet with their fire chiefs to
share our knowledge and expertise in the hope that we can save more lives in
future."

He added: "While we pay tribute to the bravery of the New York firefighters,
London's fire service would have lost only a fraction of the men lost because
our emergency plans are so much better. Now we hope the Americans will learn the
lessons and save more lives in future."

The bodies of fewer than 60 of the missing New York fire officers have so far
been recovered from the rubble in Manhattan.

Many were on the ground and lower floors of both towers when they collapsed.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              324 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                                October 7, 2001

G7 TIGHTENS GRIP ON BIN LADEN TERRORIST GROUP

BYLINE: Martin Essex and Robert Miller;

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 496 words


The economic effect of last month's terrorist attacks will be short-lived,
finance ministers and central bankers from the Group of Seven leading industrial
nations were expected to say last night.

Sources at the G7 summit in Washington said that the meeting would pledge to
take whatever measures were considered necessary to counter the global economic
slowdown and to end the funding of terrorist groups.

But the official communique from the G7 was not expected to refer to a recession
and would say that economic fundamentals remained sound in the wake of the
attacks.

The ministers and bankers met as government and defence sources said that
strikes were imminent against Osama bin Laden - the prime suspect for the 11
September terror attacks in the United States - and Afghanistan's Taliban
regime.

Tony Blair returned last night from a lightning tour of Russia, Pakistan and
India. The prime minister told Sunday Business columnist Adam Boulton that the
"trap" around Taliban-controlled Afghanistan was now set.

"Things are coming together and the coalition is strong.  Military preparations
are in hand," Blair said.

In Washington, the chancellor, Gordon Brown expressed confidence that Britain
could avoid the worst effects of the global economic slowdown.

He also supported the recent cuts in interest rates by the world's central
banks.

"As far as the British economy is concerned, I'm cautiously optimistic. As far
as the world economy is concerned, the actions that should be taken are being
taken at the moment," he said.

Brown added that "what has happened over the past few weeks is the best example
that I have seen of concerted action by the main finance ministries and central
banks around the world."

The G7 ministers - who, in an unusual move, appeared together on the conference
podium after the meetings - instructed the Financial Action Taskforce, created
by them in 1989, to widen its remit to include the investigation of terrorist
finances.

Taskforce officials will meet this week to prepare for a full conference of its
30-nation members next month.

The finance ministers also pledged that the world's most heavily indebted
countries would be helped to overcome the worst effects of the global economic
slowdown.

It was agreed that the International Monetary Fund's watchdog committee, chaired
by Brown, will try to meet before the end of the year.

u A private service was held at St Paul's Cathedral yesterday for bond-trading
firm Cantor Fitzgerald, which lost 700 staff in the 11 September attacks.

u The Foreign Office yesterday confirmed reports in Pakistan that the Taliban
had ordered the release of British journalist Yvonne Ridley.

Hopes for her early release were reinforced by the Taliban ambassador to
Pakistan, who said the Sunday Express journalist should be released over the
weekend.

Ridley was picked up on 28 September with two Afghan guides close to the eastern
city of Jalalabad.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              325 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                                October 7, 2001

THE RETURN OF BIG GOVERNMENT

BYLINE: Jonathan Fenby;

SECTION: Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1494 words


D

URING the past three weeks, not a day has passed without us being told that the
terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre has changed the world. The change has
been seen mainly in international political and strategic terms.

But, as this weekend's G7 meeting in Washington made plain, a significant shift
is also taking place in economic policy and the way governments and their
citizens interact.

Wars always foster big government, often with long-lasting repercussions, from
Napoleonic France and Bismarckian Prussia to the post-1945 welfare state in
Britain, or Lyndon Johnson's Vietnam-era Great Society. If the war on terrorism
is to be as long and thorough as George W Bush and Tony Blair pledge, it will
not be surprising if big government comes back with a force that would have
seemed unthinkable before 11 September.

That will change the context within which business is conducted, all the way
from stringent security checks holding up travelling executives and delaying the
transport of goods, to increased taxation and corporate responsibility for
employees. If the world faces "a time of adversity", as Gordon Brown warned on
Monday, then the role of government is bound to be different from the last
decade, in which the prevailing ethos was to reduce it to a minimum.

As the tectonic shifts of the Reagan-Thatcher era fed through into the boom of
the later 1990s, the mantra was that business could look after the world, that
chief executives, not politicians, were the ones who mattered, and that - for
good or ill - globalisation powered by the great multinational companies ruled
the globe. Economic liberalisation was the sole path to progress and regulations
were more likely to be a hindrance than a protection.

The attack on the twin symbols of globalisation in New York does not - and
should not - invalidate the merits of globalisation, free markets and all that
the World Trade Centre symbolised. But, in the last week, it has become clear on
both sides of the Atlantic that government is back in a serious manner, as the
spirit of John Maynard Keynes strolled down the corridors of political power.

While interest rates fell yet again towards negative territory, Bush ratcheted
up his stimulus package to $ 130bn and proclaimed the need to "provide a
kick-start to give people reason to be confident".

In Brighton, Gordon Brown hinted at tax increases to sustain public spending and
Blair's call to "reorder this world" denoted interventionism on the grandest
scale. Japan's prime minister said he would let the massive state debt go
through its planned ceiling.

France's Socialist government announced that it was going to create 50,000
temporary jobs and the chairman of Deutsche Bank called for the government in
Berlin to raise spending by e10bn (GBP 6bn) to get Europe's biggest economy
moving again.

If airlines led the way in lobbying for state aid to counter-act slumping
demand, other industries affected by the fall-out from 11 September cannot be
far behind. Job cuts on a scale not seen for a decade are likely to create a
popular anticipation of state action, as would any serious threat to pensions
due to stock market falls.

Some of this might have happened in any case, given the state of the world
economy at the end of summer. By then, the downturn had spread well beyond the
bursting of the internet bubble as US indicators stumbled and the Treasury
secretary expressed doubts about the effect of his president's tax cuts. Europe
had not taken up the international baton from the US in the way optimists had
hoped at the beginning of the year. Despite the arrival of the reformist
premier, Japan's troubles seemed to be getting worse rather than better and the
rest of Asia - with the exception of China - was sliding badly.

The repercussions of the attack on America not only aggravated that situation,
but also gave a new political edge to the search for a way to avoid recession.
What had previously been a matter of job cuts by telecoms firms and profit
warnings by last year's market stars was subsumed into the greater cause of
fighting terrorism and that makes it, inevitably, the job of governments, not
companies.

As the American historian Francis Fukuyama put it: "Microsoft or Goldman Sachs
will not send aircraft carriers and F16s to the Gulf to track down Osama bin
Laden; only the military will."

Something similar applies on the economic front, too, and the popular
expectation of action is likely to have a powerful political effect next year
when there will be legislative elections in the US, Germany and France.

The contrast with the vision of the late 1990s could hardly be greater, and is
one that we have only begun to absorb. Then, the new economy was held to offer
the prospect of ever-continuing libertarian prosperity based on unstoppable
increases in productivity. Now, US unemployment is rising at its fastest rate
for a decade, and Bush is sounding a note very like Franklin D Roosevelt's "We
have nothing to fear but fear itself".

Then, entrepreneurship ruled, and its icons filled news magazine covers and
cable business programmes. Now, it is the firemen of New York who are the
national heroes.

Then, conflict was a game arcade show, in the Gulf or above Kosovo. Now, the
best hope of bringing bin Laden and others to book lies in on-the-ground,
close-combat action that harks back to an older form of expeditionary warfare,
even if backed by 21st-century communications and technology.

Then, the US was running a healthy budget surplus - $ 121bn in the year ending
last weekend; Europe was enjoying strong growth and falling unemployment. Now,
Goldman Sachs predicts an American deficit of $ 25bn next year; in Europe,
growth forecasts have plummeted and unemployment is rising.

Then, the post cold war peace dividend was enabling governments to reduce
military spending. Now, the pressure for more expenditure on sophisticated
technology will be hard to resist, though it is likely to concentrate more on
pin-point precision than on the grander horizons of missile defence.

Then, free movement of capital was the lubricant of the global economy. Now,
American companies are going to think twice about investing in countries where
they may come under attack. All of this creates an environment in which
governments are no longer seen as a necessary evil, but as the saviour of last
resort to check the plunge to recession.

While George W Bush has drawn the right conclusion and jumped in with both feet,
Europe has a problem. Falling tax receipts caused by slowing growth were already
making it difficult for leading economies such as Germany and France to keep to
the euro-zone budget deficit criteria. Now that difficulty will be compounded.

Last week, the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, spoke out in support of
maintaining the monetary stability pact. This risks extending the slowdown in
the euro-zone motor and depending on rate cuts by the European Central Bank to
spark an upturn. On the other hand, loosening the budgetary criteria and keeping
interest rates low runs the danger of creating stagflation if consumer and
business confidence continue at their recent lower level.

Essential as the stimulus packages are, they should be a one-off shot - big, but
not habit-forming. The effect of last week's interest rate cuts will take time
to work through into the economy and have a reduced psychological effect given
the number of drops earlier in the year.

The intervention by governments should not be allowed to have structural effect,
or to introduce distortions which, in the longer run, would hamper recovery.
Equally, while greater security is essential, any permanent restrictions on the
free movement of goods, money and people would represent both a step backwards
and an additional cost for business that could lead companies to become less
internationally focused, reducing the beneficial effects of world trade.

In that respect, governments have an important role to play when the World Trade
Organisation holds its first post-Seattle summit in the Gulf next month. They
should do everything they can to avoid it becoming a forum for a slanging match
between rich and poor and among the major trading blocs and concentrate on
launching a major new trading round that can show the benefits of globalisation.

There is, inevitably, an irony in that this revival of government is happening
under a president and prime minister elected to continue policies encouraging
the state's withdrawal from the economy. Longer-term, each will face the test of
handling the re-emergence of big government in such a way that it does not turn
the clock back to a more restrictive age.

If they can prevent the terrorists from plunging the world into recession while
protecting economic liberalisation, Bush and Blair will have achieved an
economic victory to set alongside their strategic and political aims.


LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              326 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Wales on Sunday

                            October 7, 2001, Sunday

DUNCAN SMITH: 'I'M TORY LEADER, NOT THATCHER'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 349 words


NEW Conservative leader Iain Duncan Smith yesterday distanced himself from
former mentor and Tory Prime Minister Lady Thatcher.

Speaking ahead of next week's Tory conference, Eurosceptic Mr Duncan Smith said
the party must move on from arguments over her legacy and Europe.

The party must fight on a "quality of life" agenda, he said. And, referring to
the ex-PM's time in office, he said "you don't reject it, you learn from it".

"We have to learn that when change is necessary it's the Conservative Party that
steps up to the challenge and makes the change, " he explained.

Mr Duncan Smith's comments come after the Tory peer sparked fury by suggesting
Islamic leaders in Britain had not shown enough remorse for the September 11
terror attacks.

He met with Lady Thatcher during his campaign for the Tory crown and was said to
be her chosen candidate.

But while the new Conservative leader stopped short of directly rebuffing her
remarks, he stressed the war was not with Islam and insisted he called the Tory
tune now.

"It's not for me to instruct her or anyone else to be quiet, but I'm the leader
of the party and my lead is that this is not about Islam.

"This is about people of evil and twisted intent who will use religion, " he
said.

Mr Duncan Smith was also dismissive of claims that extremists from the BNP and
KKK had actively involvement in the party and his leadership campaign.

"I'm tired of the Conservative Party being diverted by the activities of one or
two individuals, individuals who are totally at odds with what we're working
for, " he said.

"I will have no truck with racism in the Conservative Party."

Tory MEP Nirj Deva yesterday said Mr Duncan Smith would use the centralisation
of the party, introduced by William Hague, to encourage the selection of more
minorities to fight Parliamentary seats.

Mr Deva, an advisor to Mr Duncan Smith on race issues, was speaking after black
Tory peer Lord Taylor of Warwick said the party had written off minority voters
at the last election by appearing "mean" and "xenophobic".

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              327 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: 'TORY BLAIR' JIBE RAPPED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 220 words

HIGHLIGHT: COALITION BUILDING: Prime Minister Tony Blair with Indian Minister
for Culture Maneka Gandhi


THE White House last night praised Britain as its closest ally, as a rift
emerged between the UK and Canada, with its prime minister dubbing Tony Blair
"Tory Blair".

Canadian premier Jean Chretien made the jibe in a behind-closed-doors meeting of
his ruling Liberal Party, but it came after a week in which he was slammed for
his inaction in the wake of the September 11 terror attacks.

And the White House praise came as it disclosed Britain had consulted with it
before his release of a document outlining the evidence against Osama bin Laden.

The document grabbed headlines in America and prompted commentators to ask why
the White House could not give a similar outline of the grounds for suspecting
bin Laden?

Yesterday, White House spokesman Air Fleischer said: "The document spoke for
itself. The manner in which that document was released provided no difficulty
for the United States. The document was prepared by the UK. We were consulted in
the process."

Speaking about PM Chretien's gaffe Joe Clark, leader of the opposition
Conservatives, said: "He should be following the example of Prime Minister Blair
rather than deriding it. I find it astounding that the only way Canadian
parliamentarians can get information about bin Laden is from the web site of the
British Prime Minister."

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              328 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 06, 2001, Saturday

Blair praise for 'brave decision' by Pakistan Diplomacy

BYLINE: By Andrew Sparrow in Islamabad

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 550 words

TONY BLAIR yesterday signalled that Pakistan was on its way to regaining
international credibility as he praised its leader, Gen Pervaiz Musharraf, for
his "brave and right decision" to abandon its support for the Taliban.

The Prime Minister said Britain would restart defence co-operation with Pakistan
and work towards a new IMF programme of assistance.

He also said Britain would provide pounds 11 million in aid to help with the
refugees coming into the country as a result of the famine and military crisis
in Afghanistan.

"I believe that Pakistan has made the right choice. The result will be a lasting
strengthening of the Western world's relations with Pakistan. We in Britain will
not walk away and nor will others."

Pakistan had offered a significant olive branch to Mr Blair a few hours before
he arrived in Islamabad.

Riaz Mohammed Khan, foreign ministry spokesman, said relations between the two
countries had shown signs of improvement before the current crisis and "now we
hope with this visit that the relationship and co-operation between the two
countries will return to complete normality".

Britain's relations with Pakistan plummeted after the 1999 military coup that
brought Gen Musharraf to power and Pakistan's continued military support for the
Taliban.

Before the September 11 terrorist attacks, Britain had pushed harder than most
European countries to persuade Islamabad to change its pro-Taliban policy.

The ruling military had also been deeply annoyed by Britain's tilt towards India
over the Kashmir dispute and the Commonwealth's suspension of Pakistan's
membership until the regime returned the country to democracy.

In a significant concession to the Pakistanis, already discussed with other
leaders of the international alliance, Mr Blair said: "We have agreed that if
the Taliban regime fails to yield up Osama bin Laden and it falls, then its
successor must be a broad-based regime with every type of ethnic group,
including the Pashtuns."

Pakistan has 20 million Pathans (Pashtuns) living on its borders. The Pathans
comprise 40 per cent of the Afghan population and are the tribe from whom the
Taliban are drawn.

Gen Musharraf is understood to have been deeply concerned about the prospect of
the Taliban being replaced solely by the Russian-backed Northern Alliance.

The general, who presides over a country where there is considerable support for
bin Laden and the Taliban, confirmed that he would help the coalition with
operational information and intelligence. Pakistan will also allow the allies to
use its air space and provide logistic support.

At a news conference Gen Musharraf would not commit himself to calling for the
fall of the Taliban and appeared to suggest the case against bin Laden was not
conclusive.

"I personally, and also my government, feel that there is evidence which leads
to an association with bin Laden. However, we are not here to stand in
judgment," he said.

Mr Blair and other leaders have been much more definite. Later, however, British
officials suggested that Gen Musharraf had been convinced in private but was
restricted by what he could say in public for domestic political reasons.

Later, Mr Blair landed in New Delhi. Today, he will have talks with Atal Bihari
Vajpayee, India's prime minister.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              329 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 06, 2001, Saturday

pounds 1m book deals for 'Beneath the Veil' journalist

BYLINE: By A J McIlroy

SECTION: Pg. 15

LENGTH: 474 words

A SURGE in demand for books concerning Afghanistan has brought a pounds 1
million fortune for Saira Shah, the freelance journalist who won critical
acclaim for her Channel 4 documentary Beneath the Veil, exposing the cruelties
of the Taliban regime.

Deals have been clinched with publishers in Britain, the United States and
Germany for her "non-fiction memoir", which she has yet to complete, about her
15-year search to find her family roots in Afghanistan.

Until the terrorist attacks in the United States, the 36-year-old writer, born
in Britain of Afghan parents, had tried in vain to find a publisher.

Even after her Channel 4 documentary this summer, for which she went veiled and
used a hidden camera to show the plight of women under the Taliban regime,
publishers showed little interest in her book project.

But everything was to change after the terrorist attacks of September 11. In the
book trade, Afghanistan became a bankable subject.

Miss Shah's book, with the provisional title Behind the Veil, has earned
advances from British US and German publishers. Patrick Walsh, of Conville
Walsh, sold the British and Commonwealth rights to Michael Joseph for pounds
200,000.

The German and American rights fetched a total of pounds 755,000.

Louise Moore, publishing director of Michael Joseph, said yesterday: "Although
the tragic events in New York have awakened specific interest in Islam, its
heritage and culture, this book is not a geopolitical treatise.

"It is the story of a little girl, growing up in the UK, hearing the myths of
her homeland from her father and then finally returning there to discover the
truth."

Miss Shah said yesterday that she was delighted her book was being published.

She had visited Afghanistan for the first time when she was 21 and worked there
as a freelance journalist, getting to know the country and becoming determined
to learn all about her family history.

The book, due to be published in autumn next year, would be the story not only
of her heritage but also about what it meant to be an Afghan woman trying to
come to terms with the divide between East and West.

The book trade has reported huge increases in sales of titles concerning
Afghanistan and Osama bin Laden since the attacks of September 11. Mainstream
publishing believed it would sell 100,000 copies of Jihad, an account by Tom
Carew, a former SAS soldier, of his tour of Afghanistan during the Soviet
occupation.

It is now printing up to 15,000 copies a week and expects to sell 100,000 by
Christmas.

Joel Rickett, of The Bookseller, the book trade magazine, said yesterday:
"Smaller niche publishers have found their books suddenly in demand.

"Obscure titles on Afghanistan and the Taliban, which were once going only to
tiny audiences, are now being snapped up."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              330 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 6, 2001

BA SLASHES ANOTHER 200 JOBS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 177 words


BRITISH Airways warned yesterday that more job losses were on the horizon after
it axed another 200 employees on top of the 7,000 cut last week. The company
will merge its two regional operations - British Airways Regional and British
Airways CitiExpress.

Many short-haul flights within the UK and to European destinations will be cut
and flights from Manchester to Bristol and Newcastle to Oslo will be suspended
from October 27.

BA announced 7,000 job cuts after ticket sales slumped following the US
terrorist attacks. The company revealed that the number of passengers on
transatlantic flights dropped by up to a third in the past three weeks.

A BA spokesman dismissed the job losses as "only regional". He added: "This is
only 200 in an outlook of 7,000.

There will be dribs and drabs of job losses like this in the coming months."

Britain's tourist industry had just recovered from the foot-and-mouth crisis
when the terrorists struck, official figures revealed yesterday. The number of
US visitors was back to normal in August.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              331 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   The Grocer

                                October 06, 2001

Global threat to supply very real'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 415 words


Clive Beddall

Sir Don Curry's Commission on the Future of Farming and Food will be urged to
recommend strengthening Britain's food production base amid fears of terrorist
attacks disrupting supplies along the international food chain.

The move follows informal private talks among retailers, manufacturers and MPs
during this week's Labour Party conference in Brighton where worries about the
sector becoming a target for terrorists were voiced.

The possibility of food chain sabotage, with major disruptions to supplies, has
also been the subject of several private industry meetings since the World Trade
Centre attack on September 11.

British Veterinary Association chief David Tyson has urged tighter controls on
meat imports to thwart a biological attack using food.

He warned that if terrorists take advantage of weak import controls, a human
catastrophe could occur. "Terrorism could strike at people through food supplies
as well as buildings," he added.

Leading food industry figures are concerned that the UK should build a more
solid domestic supply base as an insurance against supply challenges caused by
terrorism.

Industry executives The Grocer talked to in Brighton stressed that they were not
being "alarmist or apocalyptic, just sensible". As one put it: "We are, after
all, an island and a global terrorism threat to supplies is now very real."

However, communication links between government and the food industry have
become closer since last year's fuel tax blockades when food distribution
arrangements were within 24 hours of total paralysis.

That led to then agriculture minister Nick Brown calling on IGD for a detailed
assessment of operational issues during the crisis.

This week a DEFRA spokesman said the department had discussed the dangers with
the NFU and veterinary organisations.

He stressed the government was maintaining close communications with
stakeholders in the food chain.

He added: "There are contingency plans against terrorism and to ensure the
safety of food and water supplies."

Meanwhile, in the US, the Washington Food and Drug Administration has met food
industry groups in an effort to ensure that the nation's food supply is
protected from bioterrorist attacks.

Among the areas discussed were the screening of employees and protecting supply
and distribution chains. In addition, the agency asked what the government
should do to increase the security of the food supply.

l See Opinion, page 20.


LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                  Copyright 2001 William Reed Publishing Ltd.

                              332 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 6, 2001

On the brink of war: Carey leads day of prayers for reconciliation

BYLINE: Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 265 words


The Archbishop of Canterbury yesterday led Britain in a national day of prayer
for peace, justice and reconciliation in the wake of the terrorist attacks in
the United States.

George Carey called on people of all walks of life to join in a moment of
silence to remember the victims of the September 11 atrocities, and as military
action loomed ever closer, he urged world leaders to "go carefully into the
unknown".

He began the special service in the Crypt Chapel at Lambeth Palace, south
London, by quoting Tennyson: "More things are wrought by prayer than this world
dreams of, therefore let thy voice rise like a fountain for me night and day."

Dr Carey said prayers for world leaders such as Tony Blair and George Bush.

He also used the service, one of many to be held across Britain, to pray for the
5m refugees in Afghanistan, and all those who had died in the West Bank.

Describing the loss of life as "a huge human calamity", he asked for justice and
freedom for all in the world. "We pray for justice for a world where people will
be free."

Prayer services were held across Britain as part of yesterday's day of
remembrance, with religious bodies including the Baptist Union, the Church of
Ireland, the Methodist Church, and the Salvation Army offering their support.

Elsewhere, the Church of Scotland called for ministers across the country to
keep their church doors open throughout the day, and thousands of Muslims across
Britain offered special prayers.

Dr Carey said he was "delighted" at the response to his call for a time of
prayer.


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              333 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 6, 2001

On the brink of war: Tourism: Absence of US visitors carries pounds 1bn cost:
After foot and mouth, industry is dealt a second crushing blow

BYLINE: Rebecca Allison

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 497 words


Lost visitor numbers as a result of the terrorist attacks in America could cost
UK tourism pounds 1bn in the last three months of this year, the British Tourist
Authority warned yesterday.

The gloomy forecast will come as a blow to the struggling industry, which was
only just beginning to recover from the effects of the foot and mouth crisis
earlier this year.

With many potential visitors put off by the epidemic, total tourist numbers for
August, the second month of the peak summer season, fell by 11% compared with
the previous year, to 2.6m, according to the Office of National Statistics.

Overall spending by tourists during the traditional holiday month fell by a
similar degree to pounds 1.3bn.

BTA chief executive Jeff Hamblin said: "There is evi dence that the market was
slowly but surely recovering from the impact of foot and mouth, particularly the
valuable US market. Unfortunately, we feel that the latest blow to tourism will
have a far deeper and long-lasting effect than the foot-and-mouth outbreak."

It was too early to assess what the extent of the damage to the industry would
be, he added.

The signs at some of Britain's main tourist attractions, particularly those
which rely most on American visitors, are, however, far from encouraging.
America is Britain's biggest tourism source with about 4m people arriving from
the US each year.

The average number of people visiting the Tower of London each day is down by
30%. Visitor numbers at Kensington Palace are down by 30% and at Hampton Court
by 20%.

Towns such as Stratford-upon-Avon, where almost a third of the residents work in
tourism, are also expected to be badly hit. Visitor numbers are already down by
almost a quarter. At the Royal Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon, 40%
of American tour groups have cancelled.

Mr Hamblin said it was im portant to look forward and concentrate efforts on
intelligence gathering, strong marketing and promotional campaigns which could
be put in place in the future, "as soon as the time is right".

He added: "I think there is a feeling that now is not the time to be thinking
about holiday taking. However, there is in the US an incredibly warm feeling
about Britain. We think that in the long term this bodes very well for Americans
coming here."

However, European visitors were continuing to come to Britain and the conference
market was holding up well, with conferences which were being held in the Middle
East and the eastern Mediterranean being diverted into Britain, Mr Hamblin said.

"The third area of light at the end of the tunnel is that we are getting an
increase in inquiries about language studies from Latin Americans who would
previously have gone to the US."

He hoped next year's Commonwealth Games and Queen's golden jubilee would provide
a boost to the industry. "We got over the Gulf war in 1991 and we will get over
this one. It may take all of next year, but we will do it."


LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              334 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 6, 2001, Saturday

TERROR ATTACKS 'TO COST LATE-BREAK TOURISM POUNDS 1BN';
 LEISURE: BLOW FOR TRAVEL INDUSTRY WHICH HAD BEGUN TO SHOW SIGNS OF RECOVERY
AFTER FOOT-AND -MOUTH OUTBREAK

BYLINE: Robert Jones Business Reporter

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 346 words


THE tourist industry, already hit by foot-and-mouth disease, is likely to lose a
further pounds 1bn by the end of the year due to last month's attacks on the
United States, industry chiefs have said.

A statement from the British Tourist Authority (BTA) said, "The terrorist
attacks in the US are expected to cost inbound tourism to Britain around a
further pounds 1bn in the last quarter of 2001."

With many potential visitors deterred by the animal epidemic, total tourist
numbers for August, the second month of the peak summer season, fell by 11pc,
compared to the previous year to 2.6 million, according to the Office for
National Statistics.

And overall spending by tourists during the traditional holiday month fell by a
similar degree to pounds 1.3bn, the BTA said.

The slump caused by the devastating livestock disease had been in line with
earlier forecasts.

But fallout from the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Centre and Pentagon
was likely to hit the crucial US market, which was just beginning to show signs
of a return to health.

"There is evidence that the market was slowly but surely recovering from the
devastating impact of footand-mouth, particularly the highly valuable US market,
" said BTA chief executive Jeff Hamblin.

"However, unfortunately we feel that the latest blow to tourism will have a far
deeper and long-lasting effect."

More than 25 million visitors came to Britain in 2000, spending a combined total
of pounds 12.8bn.

The tourist industry has an annual turnover of pounds 64bn and employs at least
7pc of the working population.

In Wales alone, spending from overnight and day visitors contributes more than
pounds 2bn directly to the Welsh economy.

Total expenditure by tourists in the rural areas of Wales is of the order of
pounds 1bn, which represents 50pc of total tourism revenue in the country.

It is estimated that losses of forward business for the main summer season are
of the order of 30-35pc, but could rise after the events of September 11 and its
effects on UK tourism.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              335 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 5, 2001

Mosque visit;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 80 words


SHEFFIELD: Home Secretary David Blunkett was today visiting a mosque to
underline the Government's continued support for the Muslim community.

Mr Blunkett will visit a mosque in Sheffield to back the Muslim community in the
face of misguided hostility following the terrorist attacks in the United
States.

Thousands of Muslims across Britain will show their sympathy for the victims of
the terrorist atrocities by offering special prayers at Friday weekly prayers.

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              336 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

WEST TURNS UP DIPLOMATIC HEAT

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 306 words


PRIME MINISTER Tony Blair was today turning his attention to Pakistan as part of
Western efforts to solidify Islamic backing for strikes on terrorists in
Afghanistan.

Pakistan's government is already solidly behind the coalition and Mr Blair's
planned visit today was a sign of the country's new-found international stature.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld was also visiting four Muslim nations to
broaden support.

On Thursday, Pakistan became the first Muslim country to say that US evidence
connects bin Laden to the September 11 terrorist attacks on New York and the
Pentagon.

Today's visits come as Foreign Secretary Jack Straw today sent a message to the
people of Afghanistan, promising the world's help in building a better future
for their land once the Taliban was overthrown and Osama bin Laden brought to
justice.

The message, broadcast to Afghanistan by the BBC World Service, assured ordinary
Afghans that they were not Britain's enemies, only their government and the
terrorists it harbours.

In the message, the Foreign Secretary said: "This is not a fight against Islam.
It is a fight against terror. All religions value life, justice, compassion.
Terrorists do not.

He promised help from the West once the terrorists were rooted out, saying that
Britain would help provide schools, clinics, roads and secure jobs for Afghans.

A 63-year-old man, fighting for his life in a Florida hospital after contracting
a rare form of anthrax, is not believed to be linked to a possible bio-terrorism
attack, the US health secretary said.

French authorities are considering the possibility that a blast at chemical
plant last month that killed 29 people was a terrorist attack. It follows
reports that a man found dead at the scene was known to police for Islamic
fundamentalist sympathies.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              337 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

BUSINESS: BOSSES TOLD OF JOBS GLOOM By COLIN LEWIS, Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 263 words


A RECESSION in Britain's manufacturing industry will cost more than half a
million jobs by the end of next year.

This was the gloomy prediction from Jon Moulton, the venture capitalist who last
year tried and failed to buy Rover from BMW.

He told the annual dinner of the manufacturing group of the Confederation of
British Industry that manufacturers were currently "exposed to a risk that we
have never lived through before."

"It going to be bloody awful and it's going to be rough," he told more than
1,300 Midlands industrialists.

"Only a miracle will prevent recession in America, where everyone is
downsizing."

But he said recession in UK manufacturing had been looming even before the
terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre.

And longer-term prospects were even gloomier, he said.

"Manufacturing in Britain has been in steady decline for a long time.
Shipbuilding, coal mining and other major industries of the past now employ
fewer people than Britain's curry houses."

But he warned that manufacturing's future was not being helped by government's
increasing use of regulation to stifle enterprise and grants to prop up failing
firms.

His complaints about overregulation of industry were echoed by CBI director-
general Digby Jones, who said new regulations were being issued at the rate of
more than five a day.

"Over the past year, the government has issued 3,000 new regulations. That has
got to stop."

Mr Jones also criticised Britain's education system, which he claimed had
"failed the country for the past 30 years."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              338 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

TRAVEL FIRMS WIELD AXE

BYLINE: Charlie Gall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 196 words


THOUSANDS more jobs were axed yesterday in the airline and holiday business.

Dutch airline KLM announced up to 2500 jobs losses and a further 10 per cent cut
in capacity in the aftermath of the US terrorist attacks.

The knock-on effect is now hitting holiday companies with one of Britain's
biggest tour operators - First Choice Holidays - slashing 1100 jobs.

Up to half the job losses are expected to come in the UK, where the company has
10 offices and more than 330 shops.

The Crawley-based group said the restructuring programme was already under way
and would lead to annual savings of pounds 20million.

Online travel company ebookers.com said it was looking to cut 70 to 140 jobs
because of a slump in UK business.

The company, which offers discounted air fares and hotel rooms, said the US
atrocity had caused a "substantial drop" in business in its busiest month of the
year.

But Swissair resumed flying yesterday after being bailed out of bankruptcy by
the Swiss government.

The airline, which received a pounds 192million government bridging loan,
planned 50 flights yesterday. Before the shutdown Swissair had 486 flights
scheduled.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              339 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

WAR ON TERRORISM: INVESTIGATION - CHEF CHARGED UNDER ANTI-TERROR LAWS

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 315 words


A MAN who is alleged to have recruited and trained young Muslims in Britain in
how to use weapons was charged yesterday with two offences under anti-terrorism
laws.

Sulayman Balal Zain-ul-Abidin, 43, a chef from Greenwich, south-east London, is
charged under legislation that outlaws the instruction or training of
individuals in the use of firearms, explosives, chemical, biological or nuclear
weapons.

In a second count, he faces charges that relate to individuals that offer
training or instruction for terrorist offences that may take place in Britain or
abroad.

Mr Zain-ul-Abidin has been charged in connection with a security company based
in south-east London that allegedly recruits and trains Islamic extremists and
raises funds for Islamic Jihad.

He will appear at Belmarsh magistrates' court today after being arrested by
anti-terrorist detectives on Monday at the Royal College of Obstetricians and
Gynaecologists in north-west London where he works.

He is the first person in Britain to face a charge related to terrorism since
the attacks in America on 11 September.

Scotland Yard said: "The suspect has been charged with one count under Section
54(1) of the Terrorism Act 2000 and one count under Section 54(3) of the
Terrorism Act 2000."

Detectives raided Mr Zain-ul-Abidin home on an estate in Kidbrooke, south- east
London, on Monday. His is accused of being linked to Sakina Security Services, a
London-based security firm that has a website that invites clients to
participate in the "ultimate jihad challenge".

Speculation grew yesterday that the factory explosion which killed 29 people in
Toulouse two weeks ago was the result of a terrorist attack and there were
accusations of a cover-up by the French authorities. The French Environment
Minister, Yves Cochet, said "new evidence" had emerged of a "terrorist origin"
for the blast.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              340 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 05, 2001

Tour firm First Choice sheds 1,100 workers;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 118 words


TOUR operator First Choice Holidays cut 1,100 jobs yesterday.

Up to half the job losses are expected to come in Britain, where the company has
10 offices and more than 330 shops.

First Choice said that the cuts would help it respond to the "changes in the
market."

It had already scaled back its winter programme dramatically.

The immediate cost of the disruption caused by last month's terrorist attacks in
the US is estimated to be around GBP 10 million.

Capacity in Britain and Ireland for the first half this winter has been cut by
15 per cent and further reductions to the programme may be made.

The job cuts affect 10 per cent of First Choice's staff around the world.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              341 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 5, 2001, Friday

VET WARNS ON IMPORTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 68 words


THE president of the British Veterinary Association called for tighter controls
on meat imports to thwart a terrorist biological attack using food supplies.

David Tyson told vets at their conference that he feared terrorists could use
foreign food to attack Britain. The foot-and-mouth epidemic has shown how easy
it is for infection to get into the country and affect large parts of it, he
said.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              342 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

US TERROR COULD KICK-START PEACE PROCESS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 370 words


AN influential American foreign policy group yesterday called for an end to
violence in Northern Ireland in the wake of the terror attacks in the US.

The National Committee on American Foreign Police made the call in a joint
statement backed by its members, and said it was time for a successful outcome
to the peace process.

The committee, which earlier this year gave former Secretary of State Mo Mowlam
its highest award, said the September 11 attacks on America should be a catalyst
for lasting peace in Ulster.

It said: "The terrorist attack on the US marks the end of an era and brings home
to all of us how absolutely essential it is that the peace process be brought
quickly to a successful conclusion.

"The National Committee urges, in the strongest possible terms, that the people
of Northern Ireland and, in particular, those who have leadership, show the
imagination and courage it will take to accomplish this."

In a series of recommendations, it called for the Assembly not to be destroyed,
for decommissioning to go ahead on all sides and for Britain to draw up a plan
for demilitarisation.

The committee said people in Northern Ireland should "reject all arguments and
political manoeuvring designed to destroy the Agreement, as well as the
institutions of government established under it, thus bringing the peace process
to a halt.

"We urge all political parties in the north of Ireland, nationalist, republican,
unionist and loyalist and importantly the British and Irish governments, to
undertake the strongest possible steps to preserve them."

The group also called on loyalist paramilitary groups to engage with the de
Chastelain commission on decommissioning "as have the republicans".

The committee called for "immediate steps" towards the demilitarisation of
Northern Ireland, and for everyone in the Province to unite together in
"tolerance and respect".

The statement concluded: "We urge finally, should all else fail, that they
fulfil their responsibility to jointly govern the remaining implementation of
the Belfast Agreement, thereby preventing any individual or group from
interfering with the will of the people as declared in the 1998 referendum."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              343 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THATCHER'S RAP 'AN INSULT';
 MUSLIMS SHOCKED AS SHE ATTACKS THEIR RESPONSEHITTING OUT: Muslims have not
spoken out enough, claims Mrs; Thatcher

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 393 words


BARONESS Thatcher's criticism of Muslim leaders in Britain over their response
to the terror attacks in America was today described as ' very offensive.'

The Conservative former premier said Muslim leaders had not spoken out strongly
enough about the September 11 atrocities.

'The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam,' she said.

'Passengers on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were
children on board. They must say that is disgraceful.

'I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests,' she added.

Today, Mohammed Akram of the Amir Millat Centre Mosque, in Shakespeare Street,
Birmingham, said he was shocked by Lady Thatcher's outburst.

'We always thought she was a very nice person, but this statement is very
offensive,' he said.

'She has spoken out without really looking at the facts.

'British Muslim leaders have condemned the terrorist attacks. It was not just
Jewish and Christian people who died, a lot of Muslims died in that episode too.

'There are good Muslims and bad Muslims, but Islam is a beautiful, peaceful
religion.

'Lady Thatcher's comments could cause even more racial tension - it's like
rubbing salt in the wound.

'She should be enjoying her retirement and not making statements like this
without any knowledge.'

Her intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was
embarking on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the
international coalition against terrorism. US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld
is also in the Middle East trying to reassure key Muslim allies such as Saudi
Arabia and Egypt who are deeply concerned about the fall-out in the Islamic
world of any military action against Afghanistan.

Although it is more than a decade since Lady Thatcher left office, her
international stature ensures that her views still attract attention around the
world.

Sharp upsurge

British ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of
racist attacks on Muslims in Britain since September 11.

The matter is causing such concern that yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett
announced at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton he would be introducing
legislation to make incitement to racial hatred an offence.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              344 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THE BIG ISSUE: WAR ON TERROR THIS IS NOT OUR BATTLE

BYLINE: Carl Alimo

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 336 words


I, LIKE anyone else with a shred of human decency, was completely and utterly
appalled by the recent terrorist attacks in America.

In the days since September 11 our thoughts have been with America and there is
no question of our desire to see these evil-doers brought to justice. However,
it should be America alone that brings them to justice.

Many countries around the world, Britain included, have been subject to
terrorist attacks during the latter part of the twentieth century. In the Middle
East terrorism has, sadly, become an almost daily occurrence.

It is reported that America itself has had a hand in training or funding
terrorists in several countries. No-one seemed too worried by any of this at the
time. In the light of recent

events, how attitudes have changed.

The British Government has quite rightly been quick to show support for America
in condemning these attacks and offering help to track down those responsible.
That is where our involvement should end. For Britain to get involved militarily
in this current 'War on Terrorism' is total madness and can only result an
escalation of an already dangerous situation.

Why should British cities be put at risk of chemical, biological or even nuclear
attack for the mistakes of American foreign policy? Would America put itself in
the firing line for us? There are no American forces in Northern Ireland, there
were none in the Falklands and none during World War Two until after Pearl
Harbour.

The United States has probably the largest and most powerful fighting force on
earth but that will not be enough to win a war with an unseen enemy.

I am in no way Anti-American and have no religion. I feel that the only way
forward is to find the root cause of all this hatred and distrust and do our
utmost to eliminate that. We must listen to people and their grievances before
situations spiral out of control, not afterwards.

Then perhaps our children can live in a safer world.

Carl Alimo,

Kings Heath

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              345 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 4, 2001

Vet's food warning;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 95 words


NATIONAL: The president of the British Veterinary Association was today expected
to call for tighter controls on meat imports to thwart a terrorist biological
attack using food supplies.

David Tyson was to tell vets at their conference he fears terrorists could use
foreign food to attack Britain.

The foot and mouth epidemic has shown how easy it is for infection to get into
the country and infect large parts of it, he was saying.

If terrorists took advantage of what he considered to be weak import controls
then a human catastrophe could occur.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              346 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THATCHER CRITICISES MUSLIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 87 words


BARONESS THATCHER today criticised Muslim leaders in Britain over their response
to the terror attacks in America.

The Tory former premier told The Times that Muslim leaders had not spoken out
strongly enough.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests, she said.

But Muslim leaders said they had immediately and unequivocally condemned the
attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this sort of thing."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              347 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           October 04, 2001, Thursday

Wrong time for euro vote, says Ancram

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 250 words

TONY BLAIR was accused yesterday of trying to take advantage of international
co-operation against terrorism to advance the case for Britain joining the
European single currency.

Leading opponents of the euro claimed that Mr Blair's strong signal that he
wanted to hold a referendum on scrapping the pound in the lifetime of this
Parliament within the next four years was political opportunism.

Mr Blair, during a speech advocating a new world order after the September 11
terrorist attacks, said that if the economic conditions for joining the euro
were met, the Government "should have the courage of our argument to ask the
British people for their consent in this Parliament".

Michael Ancram, Conservative foreign affairs spokesman, said he was surprised
that at a time of international crisis, when the Government was trying to bring
people together, Mr Blair should "refer to something which he must know is
divisive politically but also divisive right across the country".

Sir Stanley Kalms, a leading No campaigner, said he welcomed the chance of a
referendum as the vast majority of people were against joining the euro. "On the
other hand it would be rather opportunistic," he said.

Matthew Taylor, Liberal Democrat treasury spokesman, said he was pleased that Mr
Blair had started to make the case for the euro, while Denis Macshane, junior
Foreign Office minister, said: "Now is not the time to get out the old,
anti-European, isolationist arguments."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              348 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                October 4, 2001

Maggie rap for Muslims

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.02

LENGTH: 130 words


BARONESS Thatcher has criticised Muslim leaders in Britain over their response
to the terror attacks in America.

The Conservative former premier told The Times that Muslim leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam," she said.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Conservative Central Office refused to comment.

But Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said: "Of over
6,000 people who died in this terrible incident, over 1,500 of them were
Muslims. We all want the people who did this to be identified, brought to trial
and given whatever punishment they deserve."

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              349 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 4, 2001

Lady Thatcher criticised over Muslim comments

BYLINE: Jo Revill

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 330 words


MUSLIM leaders in Britain today criticised Baroness Thatcher for her outspoken
remarks suggesting that they had not spoken out strongly enough over the
terrorist attacks in America, writes Jo Revill.

The Conservative former premier was accused of being ill-informed and
inflammatory in the her comments, with the Church of England also expressing
surprise at her remarks.

Her comments were made to The Times where she was reported as saying: "I have
not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam," she told the paper.

"Passengers on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were
children on board. They must say that is disgraceful."

Her intervention will cause embarrassment to Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith, who
was briefed on the terrorist situation yesterday by Tony Blair.

It has come at a sensitive time as Tony Blair was embarking on a new round of
shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the international coalition against
terrorism.

Mr Blair and other British ministers have gone out of their way to reassure
Muslims that any action would not be directed at Islam but at the terrorists
responsible for the attacks in America-There is also concern over attacks on
British Muslims.

Conservative Central Office refused to comment on Lady Thatcher's remarks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this. Coming from a person like Baroness
Thatcher, it is very hurtful.

"People need to know that out of over 6,000 people who died in this terrible
incident, over 1,500 of them were Muslims.

"The Muslim community has had to suffer twice - once when someone dear to them
died, the second time when people say things like this.

"On the question of terrorism, we are all on the same side."

Andrew Gimson: Page 4


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: LADY THATCHER: CALLED ON MUSLIMS IN THE UK TO CONDEMN TERROR ATTACKS

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              350 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 4, 2001

Jobs axe falls at holiday firm

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 93 words


THE airline jobs shock spread to tourism today, as leading British holiday firm
First Choice said it is axing 1,100 posts.

It expects many British holidaymakers to stay home because of international
uncertainty after last month's US terror attacks, and is cutting the number of
holidays it is offering next summer by 20 per cent.

First Choice has more than 300 retail outlets in Britain. Many jobs are expected
to go there, and from its Air 2000 operations where it is cutting its fleet from
32 to 26 aircraft.

Business Day: Page 37


LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              351 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2001

PREMIER REVEALS PROOF OF OSAMA'S GUILT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 183 words


TONY Blair is today expected to make public "incontrovertible evidence" that
Osama Bin Laden was the mastermind behind the terror attacks on America.

The Prime Minister is to use a statement to an emergency session of Parliament
to release intelligence showing Bin Laden's terrorist network was responsible
for the atrocities in America.

The move will fuel speculation that military action against targets in
Afghanistan is imminent.

The Premier was last night deciding how much of the evidence amassed by security
services can be made public.

Both the US and Britain have spent the weeks since the attacks weighing up how
they can release their intelligence without identifying their sources.

Mr Blair is unlikely to outline the evidence against Bin Laden in great detail,
but it is hoped his statement will be enough to win the full backing of MPs for
possible military action.

Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith and Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy have
already been briefed by Mr Blair and gone on record as saying there is
"compelling evidence" against Bin Laden.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              352 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 4, 2001

PLANE VICTORY FOR MOTHERS

BYLINE: BY PADRAIC FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 301 words


AN AIR stewardess has won a legal battle against the world's biggest airline in
a dispute over pay during pregnancy.

Jane Collins and three other flight attendants became pregnant in 1999 and had
to stop flying as a routine health precaution. They claimed American firm United
Airlines failed to find them alternative work on the ground, forcing them to
take unpaid sick leave.

Now a landmark employment tribunal has decided the four women are covered by UK
employment law, not American rules which offer relatively little protection. The
tribunal ruled the airline must repay lost wages to Mrs Collins, who earns GBP
25,000 a year, and the other employees.

The case is expected to have huge ramifications for employees of foreign
companies based in the UK. The ruling effectively secures the employment rights
of every woman working in Britain, no matter which multi-national firm she works
for.

United, which had two airliners hijacked in the terrorist atrocities of
September 11, has 30 days to appeal the decision.

Mrs Collins, 38, of Ringwood, Hants, gave birth on May 29 last year and is back
at work with the airline, as are Patricia Mulcahy, Lindsey Cox and Sylvie
Gayler.

Kevin Creighan, president of the TUC-affiliated Association of Flight Attendants
union, said:

"United Airlines' behaviour has been arrogant for a very long time with this
issue.

"These women were born in Britain, live in Britain and pay taxes in Britain."

Mr Creighan added: "British legislation states that suitable alternative work
should be found when the job becomes a risk to the mother or unborn baby. UA
refused to do that. It didn't feel it had to comply with UK law."

A United Airlines spokesman said: "Until we have considered the decision we
don't have any more to say."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              353 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 4, 2001

Thatcher dismays British Muslim leaders with criticism of their response

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 454 words


BARONESS Thatcher has criticised the response of Muslim leaders in Britain over
their response to the terror attacks in America, a move which has saddened the
Islamic community and been vigorously denied.

The Conservative former premier told the Times they had not spoken out strongly
enough. "The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must
stand up and say that is not the way of Islam," she told the paper. "Passengers
on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were children on
board. They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Her intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was
embarking on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the
international coalition against terrorism.

Although it is more than a decade since Lady Thatcher left office, her
international stature ensures her views still attract attention around the
world.

Mr Blair and other British ministers have gone out of

their way to reassure Muslims that any action would not be directed at Islam but
at the terrorists responsible.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Muslims in Britain since September 11. David Blunkett, home
secretary, announced at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton yesterday that
he would be introducing legislation to make incitement to racial hatred an
offence.

Conservative Central Office refused to comment on her remarks.

Muslim leaders said they had immediately and unequivocally condemned the
terrorist attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this sort of thing. Coming from a person like
Baroness Thatcher it is very hurtful. People need to know that out of over 6000
people who died in this terrible incident, over 1500 of them were Muslims."

He added: "We all want the people who did this to be identified, brought to
trial and given whatever punishment they deserve. All Muslim organisations
expressed immediately their horror and shock at what happened. We have said it
once, why do we need to keep on saying it? We have also been mourning our dead."

Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council of Mosques, said: "I am not aware
of any Muslim leaders in Britain who did not condemn this attack. Many Muslim
lives have been lost in America.

"We don't see this attack in terms of nationality, colour or creed, just as loss
of lives. It is very sad that Baroness Thatcher has made Muslims a target at a
time when the home secretary has given us comfort by announcing legislation
against religious hatred."

LOAD-DATE: October 04, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: BARONESS THATCHER: 'I have not heard enough condemnation'

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              354 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THATCHER UPSETS MUSLIM LEADERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 182 words


BARONESS Thatcher has come under fire after criticising Muslim leaders in
Britain over their response to the terror attacks in America.

The former Tory premier said they had not spoken out strongly enough about the
September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam, " she told reporters.

"Passengers on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were
children on board. They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Several leaders of the Muslim community expressed their sadness at her remarks,
pointing out that they immediately and unreservedly criticised the attacks.

At home, Mr Blair and other British ministers have gone out of their way to
reassure Muslims that any action would not be directed at Islam but at the
terrorists responsible for the attacks in America.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Muslims in Britain since September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNDER FIRE: Baroness Thatcher

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              355 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 04, 2001

No truce at home;
 MICK RIX attacks bosses for exploiting the terrorist crisis to push through
sackings.

SECTION:  Pg. 4

LENGTH: 461 words


TRAIN drivers' union ASLEF general secretary Mick Rix accused ministers at the
Labour conference this week of failing to protest at big business for exploiting
the terrorist attacks on the US to axe jobs.

Mr Rix told the Tribune rally at the party's conference in Brighton that
airlines had used the crisis in the wake of last month's attacks as an excuse to
push through restructuring of the industry.

"We have seen since September 11 excuse after excuse for bosses to make workers
redundant, " Mr Rix noted.

He said that, during a recent trip to the United States, he had counted 70,000
jobs being axed by three different airlines to protect profit margins.

Mr Rix pointed out: "In the UK, we have seen the same thing with the airline
industry.

Within three days of September 11, BA made a crucial economic decision to pull
out of Gatwick.

"These companies have been waiting for an excuse to restructure.

"I have not heard one government minister condemn that atrocity that is taking
place, " he stated.

Mr Rix complained that ministers were continuing to promote plans for greater
use of the private finance initiative in the health and education services, as
well as Tube privatisation.

He told the audience at Tuesday's rally: "You can't ask workers to go to war and
stab them in the back at the same time."

Mr Rix insisted that major issues about the role of the private sector in the
public services should not be neglected because of the current international
crisis.

He also called for the government to adopt consistently high standards in its
foreign-policy dealings.

The ASLEF leader told the audience: "What I find really hypocritical is that
Western governments built some of these people up, armed them in some of their
conflicts and then, some years later, called them terrorists for some of their
actions.

"We have helped create these terrorists.

"In future, it would be better to stick to an ethical foreign policy at all
times, " Mr Rix declared.

Labour MP George Galloway condemned Prime Minister Tony Blair's conference
speech as a "political narcotic."

Mr Galloway warned that the anti-terrorist coalition would perpetuate the
endless cycle of violence and counter-violence.

The Labour MP for Glasgow Kelvin mocked Britain's role as "head of the dirty
dozen" and said that he rejected the war on which Britain was about to embark.

Mr Galloway told the rally: "I believe the Prime Minister's speech was
essentially a political narcotic to stun the party and the public, who want to
know the details of the secret war upon which we are about to embark.

"Secret wars have no place in a democracy. Secret wars cannot be conducted by
democratic governments, " Mr Galloway insisted.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              356 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 4, 2001

Thatcher hits out at Moslem leaders
 Terrorists could poison food imports to attack Britain

BYLINE: BY SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 730 words


BARONESS Thatcher was today at the centre of a storm of controversy after
criticising Moslem leaders in Britain over their response to the terror attacks
in America.

The Conservative former premier told The Times that Moslem leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Moslems and Moslems must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam," she told the paper. "Passengers on those
planes were told that they were going to die and there were children on board.
They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Moslem priests."

Her intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was
embarking on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the
international coalition against terrorism.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is also in the Middle East trying to
reassure key Moslem allies such as Saudi Arabia and Egypt, who are deeply
concerned about the fall-out in the Islamic world of any military action against
Afghanistan.

Although it is more than a decade since Lady Thatcher left office, her
international stature ensures that her views still attract attention around the
world.  At home, Mr Blair and other British ministers have gone out of their way
to reassure Moslems that any action would not be directed at Islam but at the
terrorists responsible for the attacks in America.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Moslems in Britain since September 11.

The matter is causing such concern that yesterday Home Secretary David Blunkett
announced at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton that he would be
introducing legislation to make incitement to racial hatred an offence.
Conservative Central Office refused to comment on Lady Thatcher's remarks but
Moslem leaders expressed their sadness.

They said they had immediately condemned the terrorist attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Moslem Parliament, said: "I am very sad
and surprised that she has said this sort of thing. Coming from a person like
Baroness Thatcher, it is very hurtful. People need to know that out of over
6,000 people who died in this terrible incident, over 1,500 of them were
Moslems.

"The Moslem community has had to suffer twice - once when someone dear to them
died, the second time when people say things like this. On the question of
terrorism, we are all on the same side. We all want the people who did this to
be identified, brought to trial and given whatever punishment they deserve.

"All Moslem organisations expressed immediately their horror and shock at what
happened. We have said it once, why do we need to keep on saying it? We have
also been mourning our dead." Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council of
Mosques, said: "I am not aware of any Moslem leaders in Britain who did not
condemn this attack. Many Moslem lives have been lost in America. We don't see
this attack in terms of nationality, colour or creed, just as loss of lives."

THE president of the British Veterinary Association was today expected to call
for tighter controls on meat imports to foil a terrorist biological attack using
food supplies.

David Tyson was to tell vets at their conference in Winchester, Hants, he fears
terrorists could use foreign food to attack Britain.

The foot-and-mouth epidemic has shown how easy it is for infection to get into
the country and infect large parts of it, he was saying.

If terrorists took advantage of what he considered to be weak import controls
then a human catastrophe could occur.

In a transcript of his speech to the three -day conference, Mr Tyson was saying
the Government needed to review the role of vets in the assessment of the
quality of animals and animal products. He said: "The recent horrific events in
America point to a much wider dimension concerning the need for adequate
controls on imported food both on the hoof and on the hook.

"Terrorism could strike at people via food supplies as well as buildings. A
major review of the conditions of import controls is called for."

Consideration should be given to the benefits of home production as a counter to
any threat.

Most of the address was being focused on foot-and-mouth with Mr Tyson again
called for a national veterinary service to be set up.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: STORM: Baroness Thatcher who has criticised Moslem leaders in Britain
for their response to the attack and, above, workers at the World Trade Center
look up at a cross put up close to the rubble of the buildings

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              357 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THATCHER HITS AT MUSLIM LEADERS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 131 words


BARONESS Thatcher today criticised Muslim leaders in Britain over their response
to the terror attacks in America.

The Conservative former premier told The Times that Muslim leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam, " she told the paper.

And she added: "I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Former Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine, told on BBC Radio 4's Today
programme about her comments, said: "Frankly, I find it difficult to find words
to describe my horror at what I saw."

The comments "could only encourage" those with racist tendencies to act, said Mr
Heseltine, a Tory.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              358 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                                October 4, 2001

News analysis: The threat of a chemical attack.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: breaking news



Barnet: With armed conflict and the possibility of reprisals growing by the day,
north London will take a leading role in the fight against terror. MATTHEW
NIXSON asks how vulnerable is the capital.

Among the many casualties of the recent US attacks was the conventional rulebook
of terror.

Before they guided airliners into the Pentagon and World Trade Centre towers, it
was assumed that terrorists had some regard at least for their own lives, if not
those of their victims. Past attacks on London by the IRA were demonstrations of
power as much as anything else. Casualties on the scale of New York were, in
theory at least, avoided. Not so anymore and the implications, potentially,
affect all of us.

Last week London's top police officer, Sir John Stevens, gave a stark warning
the capital could be the next target for a terrorist attack.

Who are the biggest allies of America? he asked. Which is the next biggest
target? It's got to be here.

Airliners aside, a nerve gas or germ warfare attack on the Underground could
cause hundreds of casualties and paralyse the capital. Experts believe
biological agents such as anthrax, ebola or botulism could be smuggled into
Britain in perfume bottles. Terrorists may already have such deadly weapons.

In March 1995, the Aum Shinrikyo cult released sarin gas on the Tokyo
underground. The nerve gas caused 12 deaths and more than 5,000 injuries.
Frighteningly, that attack was botched. Had it gone to plan, experts believe the
death toll could have hit the thousands. It spurred security forces around the
world to take another look at their precautions.

On Monday the World Health Organisation raised the spectre of a new type of
terrorism. Advances in technology had made it possible to kill millions of
people with chemical or biological weapons, it warned. Defence Minister Geoff
Hoon also raised the possibility of attacks, sparking a run on gas masks at army
surplus stores across the country.

The Colindale-based Public Health Laboratory Services (PHLS) role would be to
identify the source of an attack and advise on its elimination. It was set up in
1939 after concerns the Nazis would use chemical weapons and the north London
base would take the lead role in co-ordinating the efforts of the PHLS's 49 labs
across England, including so-called category four labs for the most dangerous
organisms.

Britain's stockpiles of vaccine are believed to be held at the Government's
chemical defence establishment at Porton Down. PHLS microbiologist Dr Nigel
Lightfoot says Britain is adequately equipped to deal with germ warfare on the
home front. He said his organisation had been working for several years to
prepare for the possibility of a bio-terrorist attack.

There are medical countermeasures which can be given to the public to protect
them. These include antibiotics to deal with viruses, he told a recent
conference.

The response to an attack on the capital, would be co-ordinated by the London
Fire and Emergency Planning Authority. A control room in .

While only certain fire rescue units have gas-resistant suits, all engines carry
chemical suits which could be used in the first instance of an attack.

Barnet Council leader Alan Williams would not discuss borough precautions for
security reasons but said wheels were in motion. Various community liaison
groups had already met to discuss measures appropriate to the borough.

Mr Williams stressed the attacks on America had been years in the planning. A
similar event over London was unlikely.

Despite reassurances, we really have no way of knowing how the capital would
cope in the event of an attack. One thing is for sure. After the World Trade
Centre attacks, the threat of global terrorism can no longer be dismissed as a
Hollywood invention.

Matthew Nixson

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              359 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 4, 2001

NEWS: OTHER

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 590 words


Journalist blow

HOPES for the swift release of a British journalist being held in Afghanistan
were dashed yesterday after the Taliban accused her of being a member of the
special forces. Yvonne Ridley, a reporter with the Sunday Express, was arrested
last Friday when she was discovered inside the country reportedly wearing local
dress and without papers. Qudratullah Jamal, the Taliban's Information Minister,
said they suspected 43-year-old Ms Ridley of "ill intentions". He said: "Surely
her crime is high. How come she arrives here in such a situation without any
documents despite the ban on foreign journalists in Afghanistan?

"She must have had ill intentions while America and Britain talk of having their
special forces in Afghanistan. She could be one of those special forces."

Thatcher's attack

BARONESS Thatcher last night criticised the response of Muslim leaders in
Britain over their response to the terror attacks in America. The Conservative
former premier told The Times that Muslim leaders had not spoken out strongly
enough about the September 11 atrocities. "The people who brought down those
towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up and say that is not the way of
Islam," she told the paper. "Passengers on those planes were told that they were
going to die and there were children on board. They must say that is
disgraceful. I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests." Her
intervention has come at an acutely sensitive time as Tony Blair was embarking
on a new round of shuttle diplomacy to bolster support for the international
coalition against terrorism.

British UN role

BRITAIN will chair a new UN Security Council committee to monitor implementation
of a resolution requiring all nations to deny money, support and sanctuary to
terrorists. The council's decision to choose one of the five veto-wielding
permanent members to chair the committee is a break with tradition, and an
indication of the need for continuity in ensuring that all 189 UN member states
adhere to the resolution's provisions. Traditionally, council committees are
chaired by elected, non-permanent members that serve for two years. Diplomats
said a formal announcement is expected today after the vice-chairs of the
committee are selected. Responding quickly to the terrorist attacks on the
United States, the often plodding Security Council unanimously adopted the
sweeping anti-terrorist resolution in just over 24 hours.

'Jihad' website closed

A BRITISH website which offered young Muslims the chance to train for holy wars
abroad was last night removed from the Internet. The website of London-based
firm Sakina Security Ltd was no longer available, Internet service provider
Freeserve confirmed. The site had offered the "ultimate Jihad challenge" in
which clients were taken to a live firing range in the United States for weapons
training where they shoot up to 3,000 rounds each. It also offered training in
hand-to-hand combat, including "the art of bone breaking" and how to "improvise
explosive devices" in live operations. The website, which had more than 15,000
visitors, also asked people to donate money to a fund for the "liberation" of
the Al-Aqsa mosque in Jerusalem. They were asked to give money to a London-based
account of the Woolwich bank. It also carried a link to a "Jihad in Chechnya"
site which showed the bodies of dead Russian soldiers. It was not clear who
instigated the shutdown of the website, but police have been aware of Sakina's
activities for at least 18 months.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              360 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

MORE AIRLINE JOBS ON THE LINE AS INDUSTRY FACES UP TO CRISIS;
  UNCERTAINTY: FRESH LOSSES AND FALLING CONFIDENCE IN AFTERMATH OF TERROR
ATTACKS

BYLINE: Patrick Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 524 words


THOUSANDS more jobs could go as the crisis deepens in Britain's airline
industry.

The country's two biggest carriers, British Airways and BMI British Midland,
yesterday reported fresh losses in the wake of last month's terror attacks on
the US.

British Airports Authority, which owns Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted airports
among others, also reported a drop in passenger numbers passing through
terminals.

On the continent, Belgium's flagcarrier Sabena filed for protection against
bankruptcy as a Swissair crisis threatened to sink them both.

The Swiss national carrier owes Sabena pounds 83m. Without the cash Sabena could
follow Swissair and be forced to ground its entire fleet.

However, last night the Swiss government agreed to help its national airline.

Industry analysts predicted that the crisis had still not reached bottom and
warned of further rounds of job cuts in Britain and abroad.

Yesterday British Airways revealed that passenger numbers to the US had slumped
by more than 30pc since September 11. Overall traffic had fallen by almost 12pc
and October's figure could be even worse at more than 25pc below last year's.

Britain's second-biggest carrier, BMI British Midland, said it was forced to cut
600 jobs and ground eight planes after a slump in business passengers after the
September 11 attacks.

BMI British Midland chairman Sir Michael Bishop said, "The airline industry is
in a volatile phase at the moment and it is impossible to predict if our
prospects will deteriorate or be improved by the actions of other carriers."

GMB leader John Edmonds, who represents many of the staff at BMI facing
redundancy, warned last night the situation could spiral out of control.

"This is a further body blow to the industry. It is vital that companies hold
their nerve during the current crisis."

But there was little sign of that, and Professor Peter Thornbull of Cardiff
Business School said further redundancies among airlines was inevitable.

"Labour represents 30pc of operating costs and, more importantly, it's one of
the variables, " he said. "In a situation like this the one thing an airline can
do that will have an impact on its losses quickly is to make people redundant."

Probably the only ray of light on a terrible day was the announcement by EasyJet
that it was planning to take over BA's Heathrow-Belfast route.

That will be good news for Walesbased TBI, owner of Belfast International which
had feared a drop in profits of pounds 1.6m this year if it could not find a
replacement.

Ticket prices likely to increase PASSENGERS will face higher ticket prices if
the decline in the airline industry continues, analysts said last night.

Plummeting revenues following the attacks in the United States will lead to
fewer carriers charging more for flights, said Justin Urquhart Stewart from 7
Investment Management.

"In the short term there will be some incredible deals for consumers as they
fight to fill the seats available.

"This will change, however, and eventually there will be fewer flights from
fewer carriers which will mean higher prices."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              361 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

THATCHER HITS AT MUSLIM LEADERS' RESPONSE TO ATTACKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 328 words


BARONESS Thatcher last night criticised the response of Muslim leaders in
Britain over their response to the terror attacks in America.

The Conservative former premier told reporters that Muslim leaders had not
spoken out strongly enough about the September 11 atrocities.

"The people who brought down those towers were Muslims and Muslims must stand up
and say that is not the way of Islam, " she said.

"Passengers on those planes were told that they were going to die and there were
children on board. They must say that is disgraceful.

"I have not heard enough condemnation from Muslim priests."

Her intervention came at an acutely sensitive time as Prime Minister Tony Blair
fought to bolster support for the international coalition against terrorism.

US Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld is also in the Middle East trying to
reassure key Muslim allies like Saudi Arabia and Egypt who are deeply concerned
about the fallout in the Islamic world of any military action against
Afghanistan.

Ministers have been alarmed by a sharp upsurge in the incidence of racist
attacks on Muslims in Britain since the September 11 attacks.

Muslim leaders expressed their sadness at Baroness Thatcher's comments and said
they had immediately condemned the terrorist attacks.

Dr Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, leader of the Muslim Parliament, said, "Coming from a
person like Baroness Thatcher it is very hurtful. People need to know that out
of over 6,000 people who died in this terrible incident, over 1,500 of them were
Muslims.

"On the question of terrorism, we are all on the same side. We all want the
people who did this to be identified, brought to trial and given whatever
punishment they deserve."

Sher Azam, president of the Bradford Council of Mosques, said, "I am not aware
of any Muslim leaders in Britain who did not condemn this attack. We don't see
this attack in terms of nationality, colour or creed; just as loss of lives."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              362 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 4, 2001, Thursday

TONE IT DOWN

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 146 words


SIR - I wish the Prime Minister would play down the war-like rhetoric that
accompany his every public statement since the terror attack on the United
States.

Without doubt the incident was shocking and horrifying, but what is required is
a measured response rather than knee-jerk reactions that sound more like revenge
than justice.

Many socialists may find it questionable that Mr Blair should give such
enthusiastic and unequivocal backing to such a right-wing administration as that
of President Bush.

Deepest sympathy goes out to all those who were affected by the horror of
September 11, but I am reminded that we in Britain have been at war with
terrorism for a very long time.

And it's also true that much of the money for the bombing campaign on the
British mainland was raised in the United States.

LES HOLLEY Montana Park, Hirwaun, Aberdare.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              363 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 3, 2001

Blair gets Britain ready for action;
 Terror in America

BYLINE: John Deane ;Jon Smith PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 371 words


TONY Blair yesterday prepared Britain for military action against Afghanistan's
Taliban rulers, warning that the civilised world must defeat the terror
unleashed by their notorious guest Osama bin Laden.

In a solemn address to Labour's annual conference in Brighton, the Prime
Minister hinted that the military action being prepared by the United States and
her allies would be of a scale which was likely to propel the Taliban from
power.

In a stark warning to Kabul, Mr Blair declared: "I say to the Taliban: surrender
the terrorists; or surrender power. It's your choice."

He said that any military action would be targeted primarily on bin Laden's Al
-Qaeda terror network.

But if the Taliban maintained their defiance of the international community and
continued to refuse to hand over bin Laden, chief suspect in the September 11
attacks, they would face the consequences.

Mr Blair even outlined the shape of the action against the Taliban, saying "in
any action the aim will be to eliminate their military hardware, cut off their
finances, disrupt their supplies, target their troops, not civilians. We will
put a trap around the regime."

The Labour leader's 54minute speech was dominated by the repercussions of the
terror attacks, the threat of military action coupled with a promise to tighten
up extradition laws and overhaul the asylum system so that it cannot be
exploited by terrorists.

Home Secretary David Blunkett is due to spell out more details on those moves in
his speech to conference today.

But Mr Blair also moved forward the debate over Britain's potential membership
of the European single currency, arguing that if the five economic conditions
set out by Chancellor Gordon Brown were met then Britain should join the euro,
and that the referendum which would settle the issue should be held during this
Parliament.

Provided the conditions were met then - regardless of whether the opinion polls
were negative - the Government should "have the courage of our argument, to ask
the British people for their consent in this Parliament, " said Mr Blair.

He also made it clear he would continue reforming public services in partnership
with the private sector.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              364 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 03, 2001, Wednesday

New currency for a new world Blair's vision He backs joining euro in four years
He wants Britain to shape Europe's destiny

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 01

LENGTH: 676 words

TONY BLAIR yesterday gave his strongest signal that he wants to join the
European single currency within four years as he outlined his vision of a new
world order rising from the ashes of the terrorist attacks on America.

After months of sending out conflicting messages on the euro, he indicated that
he would use his enhanced authority as a war leader and the changed world
circumstances since September 11 to argue for greater co-operation with Europe.

Although he pledged to stay "to the last" with America in the battle against
terrorism, he told the Labour Party conference in Brighton that Britain should
play its full part in shaping Europe's destiny.

A sombre Mr Blair received a standing ovation from delegates, but there was no
conference triumphalism.

In the most impressive speech he has made as Prime Minister, he prepared the
country for military action against Afghanistan's Taliban rulers, saying that
the civilised world must defeat the terrorism unleashed by Osama bin Laden.

But he held out a conciliatory hand to the Afghan people. He promised that, if
the Taliban were toppled, the international community would work for a
broad-based regime, as well as giving aid to refugees.

Mr Blair said the allies were not planning a war on Islam: "The true followers
of Islam are our brothers and sisters in this struggle."

His 54-minute speech was dominated by the repercussions of the terrorist
attacks, the threat of military action and a promise to tighten extradition laws
and overhaul the asylum system to prevent terrorists from exploiting it.

There were strong moral and religious overtones as he proposed a new world
order, which he said should be the memorial to those who lost their lives in the
attacks on New York and Washington.

Mr Blair said he wanted Britain to play a more active role in tackling
international injustice, even suggesting that it would intervene if there was a
repetition of the slaughter in Rwanda, when a million people were killed in
1993.

He defended globalisation as a force for good and said the international
community, if it chose, could "breathe new life" into the Middle East peace
talks, resolve conflicts in Africa, combat poverty and address climate change.

He strongly defended the US. The hostile reaction to it from some Left-wing
commentators "betrays a hatred of America that shames those who feel it", he
said.

A White House spokesman said that President Bush had welcomed the speech. It
showed how close Britain and America were. "We stand strong together," he said.
"Britain has been a wonderful, valuable ally and friend."

A senior Pakistani official said that Mr Blair, who leaves for the Middle East
tomorrow to address British troops in Oman, would visit Pakistan on Friday to
bolster support for the coalition.

Mr Blair's positive tone on the euro was the biggest surprise of the speech and
suggested that he was now prepared to give the leadership on the issue that
pro-Europeans have been demanding.

He said that Britain should join the euro only if the economic conditions were
met - they were fundamental and not just window dressing.

"But if they are met, we should join; and if met in this Parliament, we should
have the courage of our argument, to ask the people for their consent in this
Parliament."

Downing Street and the Treasury said an assessment would be carried out within
the first two years of the Parliament on whether Britain had met the conditions
set by Gordon Brown, the Chancellor.

But it was the first time that Mr Blair had publicly committed himself to
calling a referendum before the next election if conditions were right.

The results of the Treasury's assessment of whether the euro is good for jobs,
the City and investment could be made known next year. If positive, a referendum
could be held next autumn or spring 2003.

The pound responded with its biggest one-day fall since the election. It fell
one per cent against the euro and dollar, slipping 1.2 cents to $1.4661. The
euro is now worth 62.4p.
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              365 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          October 03, 2001, Wednesday

Blair extends his prescience to a global perspective

BYLINE: By RACHEL SYLVESTER

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 683 words

TONY Blair and his advisers wrote about half of the speech he delivered to the
Labour Party conference yesterday in August, a month before hijackers crashed
two aeroplanes into the world trade centre.

The passages on globalisation, international interdependence and the dangers of
isolationism - as well as the strong language on the European single currency -
were included in the original draft, says No 10. They turned out to be horribly
prescient.

"Today, confidence is global; either its presence or its absence," Mr Blair
said. "I have long believed this interdependence defines the new world we live
in."

The events of September 11 have intensified the Prime Minister's determination
to be outward-looking. Yesterday he spoke about "re-ordering" the world.

As Mr Blair indicated, the terrorist atrocities make it more, not less, likely,
that the Government will call a referendum on the euro. Eurosceptics have been
hoping that the crisis would encourage the Prime Minister to "bring down the
shutters" around an uncertain Britain. But yesterday, as he described the
importance of countries drawing together, he made clear that the opposite was
the case.

Cabinet ministers privately argue that the creation of a European coalition
against terrorism, and Mr Blair's popularity as a leader at times of conflict,
could make it easier for him to lead a referendum campaign. No 10 is confident
that public opinion could be turned around more easily if Britain were fighting
alongside other European countries in a common cause.

"The European outpouring of solidarity for the US shows how hollow is the view
that Britain has to choose between Europe and America," Denis MacShane, the
Foreign Office minister, told me yesterday.

The international crisis also increases the likelihood that the Prime Minister
will support the Americans' plans for a "son of star wars" national missile
defence (NMD) system. Critics - among them many Labour MPs - argue that the
terrorist attacks destroy the credibility of the scheme, because a nuclear
shield would have given no protection against a hijacked jet.

But Cabinet ministers, including Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary, and Jack
Straw, the Foreign Secretary, think George Bush is now almost certain to press
ahead with the introduction of a defensive shield to protect his country against
nuclear attack. They are also convinced that Mr Blair will give his permission
for British bases to be upgraded for the system in the light of recent events.

"Any doubts were eliminated by September 11," one senior minister said. "Just
listen to Blair's comments on the threat of nuclear and biological attack."

The decisions on the single currency and NMD will both be controversial. But
confronted with the scale of the tragedy in New York and Washington Mr Blair
seems to have found a new confidence.

Yesterday's speech showed a rare sense of mission - the "common thread of
principle" of increasing "social justice" - a traditional Labour value.

The Prime Minister threw some sops to his activists - the admission that taxes
might have to go up and that student loans must be reformed - but he also took
on the Left over its anti-globalisation campaign. Domestic political rows, which
threw him into a panic in the past, have presumably been put into perspective by
the international situation.

In his biography of Mr Blair, John Rentoul has an interesting explanation for
the Prime Minister's decision to explain the Kosovo conflict in moral terms as a
"struggle between good and evil".

He quotes Jack Stanton, the Bill Clinton character in the novel Primary Colors,
who justifies political compromise by saying that Abraham Lincoln sold his soul
too "just so he'd get the opportunity, one day, to stand in front of the nation
and appeal to 'the better angels of our nature' ".

The Prime Minister is more comfortable at times of international crisis because
he is able to appeal to the "better angels" of our - and his own - nature. This
time he seems determined to do so domestically, too.
[PS]News: [ES]

Labour at Brighton:

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              366 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 3, 2001

Watch on 200 UK backers of Bin Laden;
the terrorist crisis

BYLINE: Patrick Mcgowan

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 174 words


POLICE are monitoring 200 British-based supporters of Osama bin Laden who have
previously fought in Afghanistan, Chechnya and Bosnia.

There are concerns that when the US begins military strikes in Afghanistan, the
radical supporters will take action in Britain.

The 200 are not believed to be directly involved in the 11 September terror
attacks in America.

French authorities have revealed that a man said to be a key member of a Bin
Laden cell planning attacks in France has admitted he recruited followers in
Britain.

Djamel Beghal, 35, a French-Algerian, is reported to have visited mosques in
London and Leicester, where he recruited several militants for Bin Laden's al
Qaeda network.

British police are also widening their investigation into the activities of
Islamic leader Sheikh Omar Bakri Muhammad, who issued a fatwa in a BBC interview
last month against the president of Pakistan over his support for America.

Investigators following the money trail of the Taliban have found 30 accounts in
Britain.


LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              367 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 3, 2001

TOUGH ASYLUM LAW PLEDGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 302 words


BRITAIN'S asylum laws will be toughened up to stop them being a "front for
terrorist entry", Tony Blair said in his speech.

He admitted that his failing policy would have to be overhauled radically to
stop people playing the system.

But he added that the British people should be proud of offering asylum to those
fleeing from tyranny.

The Prime Minister said: "Here in this country, and in other nations round the
world, laws will be changed, not to deny basic liberties but to prevent their
abuse and protect the most basic liberty of all - freedom from terror.

"New extradition laws will be introduced, new rules to ensure asylum is not a
front for terrorist entry. This country is proud of its tradition in giving
asylum to those fleeing tyranny. We will always do so.

But we have a duty to protect the system from abuse.

"It must be overhauled radically so that those who abide by the rules get help
and those that don't can no longer play the system to gain unfair advantage over
others."

His strong comments came as Home Secretary David Blunkett revealed that he is
planning to "toughen up" asylum laws.

The Government has suffered intense criticism over an asylum policy that
prompted violence in Glasgow, Bradford and other areas.

The Daily Express has led the way in highlighting the massive problems with the
controversial dispersal and voucher schemes.

Britain has long been considered a soft touch for illegal asylum seekers. At
least 11 of the 19 hijackers involved in the US terror attacks spent some time
here.

Algerian Lofti Raissi, who lived in London and is due to appear in a court on
Friday, has been accused by the FBI of teaching the hijackers to fly. Another
Algerian was extradited to France last week in connection with planned terror
attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              368 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 3, 2001

WORLD ON THE BRINK HOON ANNOUNCES AN URGENT REVIEW OF NATION'S DEFENCES AFTER
TERRORIST ATROCITIES IN AMERICA; BRITAIN MUST HAVE ELITE GUARD

BYLINE: BY ALISON LITTLE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8 9

LENGTH: 718 words


NEW elite special forces units could be formed as part of an urgent review of
Britain's military after the terror attacks on America, it emerged yesterday.

Sources rejected speculation the SAS would grow, on the grounds that its
stringent recruitment requirements meant swelling their numbers would dilute
quality.

But there could be more highly-skilled, mobile units ready to take on trouble,
while ways to improve intelligence gathering and Britain's home defences will
also be under the spotlight.

Announcing the review to the Labour party conference in Brighton, Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon said: "The attack on the United States has brought home to
us with brutal clarity the question of whether we are doing enough to cope with
the full force of the new threats we face.

"We must have the right concepts, the right level of forces and the right
capabilities to meet the additional challenges we face from international
terrorism conducted on this scale."

It would not be another full-scale overhaul, like the strategic defence review
three years ago. Sources said it would be "more evolution than revolution, a new
chapter rather than a rewrite".

It will focus on how big forces can be concentrated precisely on smaller
targets, and is likely to build on the success of British snatch squads who have
captured more then half the suspected Balkan war criminals sent for trial in the
Hague. Mr Hoon later indicated that it would require more cash from the Treasury
at a time when Chancellor Gordon Brown is warning ministers to exercise
"discipline".

He conceded the previous review did not give enough weight to the need to combat
sophisticated international terrorist groups. "No one anticipated a threat on
the scale of the threat we are now having to deal with. No one anticipated the
kind of fanaticism we saw on display in those appaling scenes on September 11.
We are dealing with a very different world, " he said.

The emphasis on "rapidly deployable, flexible forces" able to handle crises
anywhere in the world would be stepped up.

He told the conference that tackling those responsible for the US attacks, and
action against all those planning similar acts and harbouring and supporting
terrorists would be "long and hard".

There was "clear and powerful evidence" to link Osama Bin Laden and his
associates to the attacks, and he told the terrorists: "We will not rest until
we find you."

He added: "Military action alone is not the answer. But there may not be an
answer where military action does not play a vital part. And, if called on, our
armed forces will be ready."

Delegates in the debate broadly backed the Government's approach, but responded
with cheers and a standing ovation when veteran Tony Benn said any military
action must be within the framework of the United Nations.

In what he said was his last conference speech, he praised Labour's history of
"leadership for peace" and quoted the UN's founding aims of saving succeeding
generations from the sorrow of war.

"That was the pledge my generation gave to this generation, and we have to renew
it now if future generations are to live in peace, " said the former MP and
Cabinet minister.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw promised to use "every weapon" - military,
diplomatic, economic and political - to defeat terrorism, and said it was a
"delusion" to believe those behind the attacks on the US could be dealt with by
negotiation and reason.

International Development Secretary Clare Short said tackling the underlying
roots of conflict meant reducing poverty and injustice. She also warned that
Afghanistan stood "on the brink of a humanitarian catastrophe".

Liberal Democrat defence spokesman Paul Keetch said: "In the current
circumstances a review of our counter-terrorist capabilities, including special
forces, is entirely sensible. The review must also encompass our
intelligence-gathering capabilities at GCHQ and beyond.

"But any review which ignores the financing of our forces will be a wasted
opportunity. We must act to address the imbalances between commitments,
capabilities and resources that are placing inordinate strain on the armed
forces.

"If we do not, we shall be driven to a further wholesale Strategic Defence
Review before long."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              369 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 3, 2001

Referendum pledge as euro moves up agenda

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 5

LENGTH: 438 words


TONY Blair yesterday signalled his willingness to lead Britain into a single
European currency within the next five years, providing the economic conditions
were right.

In his strongest argument for the euro so far, the prime minister said the
government should have the courage of its convictions in making the argument for
British membership, provided the five conditions laid out by Gordon Brown, the
chancellor, were fulfilled.

Addressing more than 4000 delegates and visitors at the Labour Party conference
in Brighton, Mr Blair said: "We should only be part of the single currency if
the economic conditions are met. They are not window-dressing for a political
decision. They are fundamental.

"But if they are met we should join and, if met in this parliament, we should
have the courage of our argument to ask people for their consent in this
parliament. Europe is not a threat to Britain. Europe is an opportunity."

With 60% of UK trade, three million jobs and much of Britain's political weight
engaged in Europe, Mr Blair said it would be a "fundamental denial of our true
national interest" to turn our backs on Europe.

Before the general election, Mr Blair committed the government to making an
assessment of whether the economic conditions had been met within two years of
the parliament beginning. But the recent terror attacks on America had fuelled
speculation that joining the euro zone had been put on the back-burner.

Squashing such suggestions, Mr Blair insisted: "In alliance with others, we gain
strength."

Referring to the US attacks, Mr Blair added: "Round the world, 11 September is
bringing governments and people to reflect, consider and change. And in this
process, amidst all the talk of war and action, there is another dimension
appearing.

"There is a coming together. The power of community is asserting itself."

The prime minister's renewed committment to the euro denotes his steely
determination not to allow his plans to be blown off course. By 2003, more than
half of the British population will have first-hand experience of the euro and
it is thought that Mr Blair and Mr Brown will come to a decision on whether to
hold a referendum on a single currency next summer.

Michael Ancram, shadow foreign secretary, expressed surprise that the prime
minister would raise the issue of the single currency, given in the current
international climate.

''I was just surprised that at this time of international crisis, when you're
trying to bring people together, he should actually refer to something which he
must know is, at best, divisive," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 03, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: HEAD FOR COVER: Delegates arrive in the rain ahead of Tony Blair's
speech at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton, yesterday. Picture: Toby
Melville

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              370 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Manchester Evening News

                                October 3, 2001

M.E.N. SALUTES THE HEROES OF NEW YORK

BYLINE: PETER SPENCER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 196 words


They gave their all... now it's our turn; The great challenge: See Centre Pages


BRITAIN'S biggest event to raise money for the families of the firefighters
killed in the US terror attacks will be held in Manchester.

We are hosting the Manchester Evening News soccer challenge between legends of
Manchester United and City at the M.E.N. Arena - with the teams managed by Reds
boss Sir Alex Ferguson and Blues supremo Kevin Keegan. All proceeds from the
October 19 event - ticket hotline 0161-930-8000 opens at 10am tomorrow - will go
to Greater Manchester Fire Brigade's New York Firefighters Dependants' Fund for
the families of the 360 brigade staff killed when the terrorists destroyed the
World Trade Center.

Prime Minister Tony Blair took a break from the Labour Party conference today to
speak to the M.E.N.  Decent people right across the globe have united in shock,
sorrow and revulsion at the appalling attacks in the United States,'' he said.
We have shared the grief of the thousands of families - including many of our
fellow citizens - who are mourning loved ones. I know, from my own visit to New

Turn to Page Four



LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Manchester Evening News

                              371 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 3, 2001, Wednesday

MILITARY IN SWITCH TO TERROR

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 114 words

HIGHLIGHT: PLEDGE: Geoff Hoon


BRITISH armed forces will be re-shaped to combat fanatical terrorism, Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon pledged yesterday.

He has ordered a review of our military machine in the wake of the US terror
attacks.

Mr Hoon told the conference the Armed Forces may have to be "re-balanced".

That could mean boosting elite units such as the SAS.

Mr Hoon said: "The attack on the United States has brought home to us with
brutal clarity the question of whether we are doing enough to cope with the new
threats we face."

And he warned that Britain's servicemen and women were ready to join America's
war on terror.

He added: "Our forces stand ready to play their part."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              372 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 03, 2001

Blair issues Taliban ultimatum;

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 314 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair told the Labour conference yesterday that Afghanistan
would face military action unless the regime gives up terrorist suspect Osama
bin Laden, writes Mike Ambrose.

To appease delegates, he moderated the gung-ho rhetoric of recent weeks.

But he hinted that military strikes by the US, Britain and their international
allies would be on a scale that would topple the Taliban regime from power.

The regime has been accused of harbouring Mr bin Laden, whom Western powers
suspect of carrying out last month's terrorist attacks in the US In a stark
warning to Kabul, Mr Blair declared: "I say to the Taliban - surrender the
terrorists or surrender power. It's your choice."

He even outlined the shape of the proposed action, stating: "The aim will be to
eliminate their military hardware, cut off their finances, disrupt their
supplies, target their troops not civilians.

"We will put a trap around the regime."

Mr Blair insisted that attacks to cripple the fundamentalist regime would be
"proportionately targeted" and promised that the government would "do all we can
humanly do to avoid civilian casualties."

He claimed that the strikes would be followed with efforts to guarantee Afghans
a "broad-based successor" to the Taliban that "offers some way out of the
miserable poverty that is your present existence."

But the Taliban's Pakistan ambassador Abdul Salaam Zaeef rejected Mr Blair's
ultimatum to surrender Mr bin Laden and hinted at a determined and lasting
conflict, if international forces moved in.

The ambassador sent the message to Mr Blair:

"Only Allah can change regimes."

Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament chairwoman Carol Naughton welcomed the more
restrained tone of Mr Blair's remarks, but called for the pressure to be kept up
so that the government was continually reminded of the case for peace.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

GRAPHIC: NEW LABOUR, NEW BATTLE OF BRITAIN: Prime Minister Tony Blair preparing
to smite foes at home and abroad in his speech to the Labour Party conference in
Brighton yesterday.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              373 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                                October 3, 2001

Hundreds more airline jobs go in terror aftermath
 Company is helping rebuild the Pentagon

BYLINE: BY SENTINEL REPORTER

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 953 words


HUNDREDS more jobs were lost today in the aviation industry in the aftermath of
the US terrorist attacks.

Airline bmi british midland told union officials it planned to cut 600 jobs and
the company was also grounding eight aircraft, said union officials.

And up to 90 jobs are to be lost as part of restructuring at Manch-ester
Airport.

Bosses say the move was planned weeks ago but was speeded up because of the
impact on the industry of the terror attacks.

Around 500 people in management, administration and operations will be affected
including workers from South Cheshire.

The jobs blow comes as Home Secretary David Blunkett today announced measures to
combat anti-Moslem hate crimes in the wake of the terror attacks. Mr Blunkett
outlined the proposed legislation - which includes measures to counter illegal
immigration into the UK - in his keynote speech at the final day of the Labour
Party conference in Brighton.

He said he hoped to have the details of the proposed laws drafted and ready to
take to Parl-iament in two or three weeks.

Meanwhile as the hunt goes on to catch terrorists, a man, alleged to be a key
member of an Osama bin Laden cell which was set to unleash mayhem in Europe, has
admitted that he recruited followers at mosques in Britain.

French authorities said Djamel Beghal, 35, a French-Algerian, confessed during
interrogation last month in Dubai to being involved in a bin Laden-backed plot
to blow up the US embassy in Paris.

He told them he frequented mosques in London and Leicester where he recruited
several Islamic militants for bin Laden's al-Qaida network.

In Britain yesterday, anti-terrorist officers released without charge a 36-year
-old man arrested at Gatwick Airport on Friday.  The man, believed to be an
Arab, was travelling from the Middle East to the US.

It was reported that he was attempting to follow the same route to the US as 11
of the 19 suicide hijackers who attacked New York and Washington.

Officers in London were today continuing to question a 43-year-old man, who was
arrested on Monday, over whether he raised funds for the extremist group Islamic
Jihad, which is banned in Britain.

They obtained a 48-hour extension yesterday to continue questioning him.

The Taliban today pronounced themselves "ready for negotiations" over Osama bin
Laden's fate.  But the US has turned down Taliban offers to negotiate, which
President George W Bush reiterated yesterday. He said the Taliban must shut down
bin Laden's al-Qaida network in Afghanistan "otherwise there will be a
consequence. There are no negotiations," he said.

The US president has also approved assistance to groups within Afghanistan that
oppose the Taliban.

Mr Blair told a Labour Party conference yesterday that the Taliban "can
surrender the terrorists or face the consequences."

He added: "There is no diplomacy with bin Laden or the Taliban regime."

Meanwhile the first major consignment of Britain's GBP 25 million humanitarian
aid package was today arriving in Afghanistan.

The DC8 cargo plane took off on its 14-hour journey from London Manston Airport
in Kent at 9.30 last night, bound for Mashhad in Iran.

Chartered by the Department for International Development, it was given
clearance to land near to the Afghan border.

The cargo plane is loaded with more than 400 tents capable of sheltering 15 to
20 people each.

A GLOBAL construction company based in Cheshire is helping to rebuild an
American landmark following the terrorist atrocities.

AMEC, which has its UK headquarters in Northwich, has also joined the effort to
load and remove an estimated million tonnes of twisted steel and concrete from
the debris of the World Trade Center.

The firm will take a role in the repair operation at the Pentagon, the US
defence headquarters.

AMEC spokesman Nick Welsh said 300 workers were split between the two sites.

He said: "This is the sort of attack that no one ever wanted to see, but now
that it has happened we have stepped into the breach to help play our part in
bringing things back to normal."

AMEC, which employs 27,000 staff across the globe and 8,000 in the US, is one of
six firms making up the three New York City of Design and Construction-hired
(DDC) clean up teams contracted to remove the twisted steel, broken concrete and
other debris strewn across a 12-block area in Manhatten.

Workers have already shifted around 140,000 tonnes of debris from the complex
since the 110-storey towers collapsed after being struck by two hijacked
airliners last month.

The total amount of concrete and steel is thought to stretch beyond a million
tonnes and is expected to take months to clear.

New York mayor Rudolph Giuliani gave an update on the state of repairs at a week
-long United Nations debate on international terrorism.

He said: "The amount of time they will need to

remove and clear the site will range anywhere from nine months to one year
because of the complexity they believe they will face."

He said the most difficult task would be to remove structural material which was
driven deep into the ground by the collapse.

AMEC had been in the final phase of a three-and-a-half year refurbishment and
renovation programme at one of the Pentagon's 'wedge' sections when the
attackers struck.

Mr Welsh said no AMEC staff were injured.

He said: "It was a wedge adjacent to the one we were working on that was
demolished in the attack. We are now working to repair the damage in the first
wedge in which we were working, and we expect to be involved in the work to
repair the damaged wedge."

The attacks on September 11 have been expected to lead to the loss of 109,000
jobs, according to the Fiscal Policy Institute.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: NEW LAWS: David Blunkett The section of the Pentagon destroyed in the
September 11 terror attack

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              374 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 3, 2001, Wednesday

Britain 'was told of suspect in 1994'

BYLINE: Adam Sage in Paris and Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news

LENGTH: 758 words


FOR seven years French secret agents tried in vain to warn British Intelligence
that a student living in London was a dangerous Islamic terrorist working for
Osama bin Laden's network.

The failure to investigate Zacarias Moussaoui left him undisturbed to train for
his role in the suicide attacks in America.

Today the FBI is questioning M Moussaoui, who was arrested in Minneapolis, and
asking why security alerts about the 33-year-old French-Moroccan were missed in
Britain. French security chiefs say that the British refusal to help was typical
of what they call the United Kingdom's "abysmal record in tackling Islamic
terrorism".

French investigators say that the Government was lax in its dealings with
Islamic militants. Nine other countries who want alleged Islamic terrorists
extradited from Britain share that view.

A French judicial source said: "Britain has allowed these networks to set up in
London and has looked the other way in the belief that Britain would be spared
from any bombing campaign."

Another terrorist suspect - Djamel Beghal, 35 - told French investigators that
during his three years in Britain he was recruiting Islamic militants for
terrorist attacks.

M Moussaoui, who lived in Brixton, is also alleged to have recruited others for
al-Qaeda, who are suspected of being part of the plot to bomb the American
Embassy in Paris. He is among the few who appear to have known about the plans
for terror attacks in Europe and America, where he is regarded by the FBI as the
twentieth hijacker.

It was only his eagerness to learn how to steer a Boeing aircraft without first
mastering take-off and landing that led to his arrest before he could join
Flight UA93, which crashed in Pittsburgh and was the only aircraft to miss its
target.

Eighteen months earlier, repeated warnings to British authorities that M
Moussaoui was visiting training camps run by bin Laden in Afghanistan went
unheeded. Requests from Paris in 1999 to trace his movements were never acted
on, even though he was easy to find because he was collecting welfare benefits
and studying international trade at a college near his flat.

The British slip-ups were compounded by the FBI, which, after arresting him in
August, was refused permission by the US Justice Department to search the hard
drive on his computer because the agency did not produce evidence that he was
"an agent of a foreign power or terrorist group". Only after the September 11
attacks did agents find incriminating information in his laptop. One FBI
investigator told Newsweek magazine: "If we had put two and two together, we
could have got a lot more information about this guy - if not stopped the
hijacking."

FBI agents in Minneapolis, where M Moussaoui was arrested, said that the
information they discovered on the laptop was data about crop-dusting aircraft,
a find that led to all such aircraft being grounded amid fears of a chemical
attack.

Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Home Secretary, said last night: "We clearly need to
know in Parliament tomorrow whether this very serious report is true or untrue
and whether, if true, it arises from a misjudgment or from some legal
impediment."

Ann Widdecombe, the former Shadow Home Secretary, said: "If it is true that we
were warned twice, then we should have an urgent statement."

The failings began in 1994, when French magistrates found M Moussaoui's name in
an address book seized as part of an investigation into the murder of three
French consular officials in Algeria. A French judge, Roger Le Loire, travelled
to London to see what Scotland Yard knew, but, according to French judicial
officials, the Home Office refused to co-operate.

In 1999 the French counter-espionage agency, la Direction de la Surveillance du
Territoire (DST), noted that M Moussaoui had made several trips to Afghanistan
and Pakistan. French citizens travelling to those countries without a stated
mission, such as charity or diplomatic work, are considered potential terrorist
suspects and kept under surveillance by the DST.

Each time that M Moussaoui left France after 1999, his movements were signalled
to the DST headquarters in Paris. Agents were certain that M Moussaoui was
visiting bin Laden's training camps in Afghanistan.

The Interior Ministry in Paris declined to say how Scotland Yard dealt with its
request for help, but a senior police source in Paris said: "The British police
are not reputed for being especially co-operative in the fight against Islamic
terrorism."


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Times Newspapers Limited

                              375 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 3, 2001

NEWS: OTHER

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.4

LENGTH: 477 words


Defence review

DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon has announced an urgent review of the Armed Forces
in the light of the US terror attacks. Mr Hoon told the Labour Party conference
in Brighton that they may need to "re-balance" Britain's existing military
capabilities in order to deal with the new threat of global terrorism. "The
attack on the United States has brought home to us with brutal clarity the
question of whether we are doing enough to cope with the full force of the new
threats we face," he said. "We must have the right concepts, the right levels of
forces and the right capabilities to meet the additional challenges we face from
international terrorism conducted on this scale." Mr Hoon stressed it would not
be another full-scale strategic defence review (SDR) - just three years after
the last one - and Ministry of Defence sources said it would be "evolutionary
not revolutionary". However the Defence Secretary indicated that it would
require extra funding from the Treasury at a time when Chancellor Gordon Brown
was warning all spending ministers of the need to exercise "discipline".

US rates cut again

THE Federal Reserve knocked another half-a-per cent from US interest rates last
night in a bid to prevent the US economy falling into a prolonged recession. The
cut, widely expected in the City, is the ninth by the Fed since the start of the
year, and takes the cost of borrowing in the US to just 2.5%. Federal Reserve
chairman Alan Greenspan made a similar cut in the aftermath of the terror attack
on the US last month. The move led to reductions from both the European Central
Bank and the Bank of England, which took UK interest rates down to 4.75%.

Plans for Palestine

PRESIDENT Bush planned to press for the creation of a Palestinian state last
month but the terror attacks in New York and Washington put the move on the back
burner, a senior US official said. He said the idea of a Palestinian state has
always been part of the peace process "so long as the right to an Israeli state
is respected". The attacks sidetracked an initiative by the Bush administration
to launch Israel and the Palestinians into a new peacemaking process that only
now is beginning to take shape again. It was understood by Israel as well as the
Palestinians that the outcome, if successful, would include creation of a
Palestinian state, the official said.

Italian award for mayor

NEW York's mayor Rudolph Giuliani was yesterday awarded Italy's highest civilian
honour in recognition of him "spreading hope and idealism" after the terror
attacks. Giuliani was named a Knight of the Great Cross for the "exceptional
example of strength of spirit and civic sense," said Italian President Carlo
Azeglio Ciampi. "The mayor of New York incarnated the spirit of sacrifice and
self-denial of all Americans of Italian origin," Ciampi said.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              376 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           October 3, 2001, Wednesday

HOON CALLS FOR DEFENCE REVIEW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 206 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon has announced an urgent review of the Armed Forces
in the light of the US terror attacks.

Mr Hoon told the Labour Party conference in Brighton that they may need to "re
-balance" Britain's military capabilities in order to deal with the new threat
of global terrorism.

"The attack on the United States has brought home to us with brutal clarity the
question of whether we are doing enough to cope with the full force of the new
threats we face, " he said.

"We must have the right concepts, the right levels of forces and the right
capabilities to meet the additional challenges we face from international
terrorism conducted on this scale."

Mr Hoon stressed it would not be another full-scale strategic defence review
(SDR) - just three years after the last one - and Ministry of Defence sources
said it would be "evolutionary not revolutionary".

However the Defence Secretary indicated that it would require extra funding from
the Treasury at a time when Chancellor Gordon Brown was warning all spending
ministers of the need to exercise "discipline".

"We need to look very carefully at the level of financial commitment that we
require, " Mr Hoon told Radio 4 after the speech.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              377 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

SAS GOING GLOBAL;
 EXPANSION TO FIGHT TERRORISTS

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words


THE SAS could be expanded to combat the threat of global terrorism, it was
reported today.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon was set to announce a review of the structure,
equipment and strategy of Britain's armed forces at Labour's party conference,
the report said.

The Ministry of Defence is to study whether Britain has enough special forces
and has the relevant equipment for the new type of terrorism.

The review will also look at the nature of the potential terrorist threat,
including methods of attacking state terror groups and the configuration of
rapid reaction forces.

A defence official said: 'We have thought about terrorism before, but the scale
of what happened on September 11 makes it necessary to undertake a re
-examination.'

Meanwhile, military experts predicted the tactics used in any military strike
against Afghanistan will be similar to those employed in the early days of the
Gulf War.

Targeted air strikes backed up by special forces operations are the most likely
options to be used by western leaders aiming to bring terrorist leader Osama bin
Laden to his knees.

British jets and SAS forces are likely to join the US military in the impending
attacks against the ruling Taliban.

Military retaliation against bin Laden for the September 11 attacks has been on
the cards since shortly after the atrocities and fighting moved a step closer
today as Prime Minister Tony Blair said he had lost patience with the Taliban
regime.

Defence expert Mike Yardley said Mr Blair and US President George Bush would be
in a position to fight now special forces on the ground in Afghanistan had
established where the main terrorist sites are.

Weaknesses

He said: 'We can assume that the special forces have been on the ground for some
time and have been assessing the Taliban's strengths and weaknesses.

'They will have three main roles: as intelligence gatherers, as forward
targeting officers guiding missiles on to targets by laser, and thirdly, and
most interestingly, they may be used as snatch squads to capture bin Laden and
his generals.'

Using special forces intelligence, British Tornado GR-4 jets armed with laser
-guided missiles are likely to be used alongside US F-15e fighters in any air
strike, Mr Yardley said.

Bases in Pakistan and the former Soviet satellite states would be most likely to
be used for take-off although the long range F-15e could operate from Oman if
required.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              378 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 2, 2001

SAS to become a global force;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 103 words


NATIONAL: The SAS could be expanded to combat the threat of global terrorism, it
was reported today.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon is to announce a review of the structure, equipment
and strategy of Britain's armed forces at Labour's party conference, the
Guardian said.

The Ministry of Defence is certain to study the nature of the potential
terrorist threat, including methods of attacking quasi-state terror groups and
the configuration of rapid reaction forces.

British jets and SAS forces are likely to join the US military in the impending
attacks against the ruling Taliban and its hardware.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              379 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

TORIES PROMISE SUPPORT FOR UK'S MUSLIMS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 197 words


CONSERVATIVE leader Iain Duncan Smith yesterday pledged his support for
Britain's Muslim community following the terror attacks on the United States.

Mr Duncan Smith said he looked forward to strengthening his party's relationship
with British Muslims - and indicated he would be appointing members of ethnic
minorities into key party positions tomorrow.

After a meeting with British Muslim leaders yesterday, he said the Tory party
would back the Government and the police in ensuring good community relations
and protecting mosques.

And aiding innocent Afghans caught up in the crisis was "an international
priority".

Mr Duncan Smith met representatives from the Islami Centre, the Muslim Doctors'
and Dentists' Association, the Muslim Women's Helpline and the Muslim Council of
Britain.

"Islam is a peaceful faith and Muslims across Britain and across the world share
the horror at the loss of life in New York, Washington and Pennsylvania, " the
Conservative leader said.

"On behalf of the Conservative Party, I offer Britain's Muslims our support at
this difficult time. Muslims have faced intimidation, hatred and even attack
from neighbours."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              380 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Straw: world can build new order

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 221 words


WORLD LEADERS have a chance to build a new order after the terrorist attacks on
America, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will tell the Labour conference today.

He will say the success in building a global coalition against terrorism,
bringing in countries as diverse as Russia and Iran, could lead to a permanent
improvement in international co-operation.

While he is not expected to repeat the phrase, he will point towards the kind of
"new world order" promised by President George Bush Senior after the Gulf War.

One element will be a strong role for Britain inside the European Union.

Mr Straw will praise the EU's response to the attacks and say it is a graphic
example of why Britain is a member.

He is expected to tell the conference: "That nations have come together in this
unprecedented way shows how the world is changing.

Our challenge is to harness this spirit of co-operation to build a safer, more
inclusive world which confronts global issues like poverty, conflict and the
environment."

Mr Straw's speech is set to draw on his trip to the Middle East last week and
argue that the atrocity was an attack on Islam just as much as it was an attack
on other faiths.

Citing support from Muslim leaders in the region, he says that such violence is
against the teachings of Islam.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              381 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Terrorist crisis 'must strengthen EU ties'

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 210 words


PRO-EUROPEAN members of Tony Blair's Cabinet are calling for closer EU
integration in response to terrorist attacks, writes Ben Leapman.

They believe the build-up of the international coalition against ter rorism will
strengthen the case for closer links between London and Brussels.

Labour Party chairman Charles Clarke led the charge at a conference fringe event
hosted by Britain in Europe, the group which backs British entry to the euro.

He said: "I think the argument has accelerated massively since the tragic events
of 11 September. The need to be at the core of Europe was always there and has
been demonstrated absolutely dramatically."

However, a different tone will be heard in today's conference speech by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw, who is seen as relatively Eurosceptic.

He will praise the EU's response to the American attacks and say the crisis
demonstrates why Britain must be a member but he is not expected to conclude
that the powers of Brussels must be strengthened. He will merely name the
organisation alongside Nato and the United Nations as bodies in which Britain is
successfully involved.

He will add that the terrorist crisis could lead to a permanent improvement in
international co-operation.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              382 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Calls for stronger EU links in wake of US attacks

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 439 words


PRO-EUROPEANS in Tony Blair's Cabinet are calling for closer EU integration in
response to terrorist attacks

They believe the build-up of the international coalition against ter rorism will
strengthen the case for closer links between London and Brussels.

Labour Party chairman Charles Clarke led the charge at a conference fringe event
hosted by Britain in Europe, the group which backs British entry to the euro. He
said: "I think the argument has accelerated massively since the tragic events of
11 September.

The need to be at the core of Europe was always there and has been demonstrated
absolutely dramatically."

Transport Secretary Stephen Byers and Leader of the Commons Robin Cook backed
the call. Simon Murphy, leader of Labour's Euro MPs, went further today with a
call for an early referendum on joining the single currency.

Referring to the Chancellor's five economic tests for whether Britain should
join, Mr Murphy demanded a "sixth test - the cost of staying out". He said: "We
cannot afford to delay. The longer we stay out of the euro, the greater our loss
of influence."

By contrast, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, one of the most Eurosceptic Cabinet
ministers, avoided all talk of the issue in his keynote conference speech today.

He said the terrorist attacks offered world leaders a chance to reshape
international relations, in the way that a "new world order" emerged from the
Second World War.

Welcoming the new alliance encompassing countries as diverse as Russia and Iran,
he said: "Our challenge is to harness this spirit of co-operation to build a
safer, more inclusive world which confronts global issues like poverty, conflict
and the environment."

Mr Straw told Britons not to panic over fears of attacks. He said: "We have to
be vigilant but we have to be calm too, and need to recognise that we have truly
faced greater dangers in the past and yet come through stronger."

'Clear evidence points straight to Bin Laden'

NATO today announced it now has "clear and compelling" evidence that the 11
September atrocities were committed by terrorists controlled by Osama bin Laden.

Secretary-General Lord Robertson said information from the US pointed
"conclusively" to the Saudi dissident, identified by President Bush as the prime
suspect. Following a briefing from US ambassadorat-large Francis X Taylor, Lord
Robertson said: "It is clear all roads lead to al Qaeda and pinpoint Bin Laden
as having been involved in it." The announcement appears to bring closer the
moment at which the allied forces begin their attack on the Taliban regime in
Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              383 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                                October 2, 2001

SAS may get bigger role to combat terror threat;
armed forces

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 335 words


THE SAS could be given an expanded role after a forthcoming review of the
ability of Britain's Armed Forces to cope with the growing threat from
international terrorism, it emerged today.

Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon is to announce plans to study whether the UK has
enough special forces and if their equipment and strategy needs to be updated to
deal with changing circumstances.

Special forces from Britain and the US are expected to play a key role in any
military effort against the Taliban and Osama

bin Laden's al Qaeda network Afghanistan. The review is also expected to make a
fundamental study of the potential terrorist threat, including how big nations
can harness the huge power of their conventional forces to be effective against
small, mobile targets.

Defence chiefs admit they did not expect to have to deal with small cells of
ruthless fanatics willing to kill themselves in pursuit of murdering civilians.

The review will concentrate on issues such as rapid reaction forces and the best
ways of attacking terror groups which may be operating largely alone but being
funded or sheltered by states. It will also consider the ability of terrorists
to strike at public morale and the potential of various groups to use nuclear,
biological or chemical weapons.

Defence officials say the move is a "new chapter but not a rewrite" of the
strategic defence review conducted three years ago by Lord Robertson, who moved
from being defence secretary to secretary-general of Nato. The results may not
be published for security reasons.

First strikes by warplanes and cruise missiles against Taliban forces could
start tomorrow and the US will want British forces to be involved. In addition
to the SAS units already serving alongside the US Delta Force and Green Berets
inside Afghanistan, the Navy's submarine HMS Trafalgar is now cruising off the
Gulf. Its Tomahawk cruise missiles are well within range of major targets round
Kabul and Kandahar in Afghanistan.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              384 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 2, 2001

CHERIE'S NEW EARRING AID

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 133 words


CHERIE Blair yesterday revealed how she is coping with mounting pressure as her
husband faces his sternest test since becoming Prime Minister.

Gale-force winds which ripped along Brighton seafront swept back her hair to
expose an acupuncture ear-stud designed to relieve stress.

Mr Blair has looked increasingly strained as the tension builds over Britain's
role in any military response to the terrorist attacks on America, but his
beaming wife looked happy and relaxed as she joined him yesterday at the Labour
Party conference.

The high-flying lawyer is known to be a devotee of New Age remedies and has
tried acupuncture before.

Three years ago she was reported to have paid GBP 239 for a crystal pendant said
to counter negativity and deflect electromagnetic radiation.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              385 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                October 2, 2001

MORTGAGE EXPERT WARNS OF IMPACT FROM TERRORISM ON PROPERTY VALUES; HOUSE PRICES
IN PERIL

BYLINE: BY SARAH O'GRADY PROPERTY CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 510 words


HOUSE prices have continued to soar - but they could be badly affected by the
aftermath of the terror attacks on America, Britain's biggest building society
said yesterday.

The Nationwide revealed that property values rose by 2.8 per cent last month -
the highest monthly increase for eight years.

The jump put annual house price inflation for the year to the end of September
at a record 14.6 per cent and increased the average price of a property to GBP
92,432.

But Alex Bannister, the building society's economist, warned that the terror
attacks had increased the risk of recession in the US and Britain.

He said: "Much depends on the outlook for the US economy and its impact on
economies across the world, including the UK.

"The key issue is whether American consumers remain confident enough to keep
their economy going. A recession in the United States would knock prospects for
the British economy and housing market, with London feeling the impact first and
most significantly. Unemployment is likely to increase, and pay and bonuses look
set to be less generous.

"Given that the housing market is largely driven by the buoyancy in pay and in
jobs growth, it is likely we will see it slow down.

"Despite these strong gains, we are leaving our house price growth forecast for
2001 unchanged at 11 per cent due to the high degree of uncertainty following
the terrorist strike.

"It is possible that the housing market may slow more quickly and recover more
slowly than we originally envisaged, but in reality it is too early to forecast
with any confidence."

The Bank of England announced yesterday that total mortgage lending increased by
a record GBP 14.5billion in August - GBP 800million higher than during July.
Once redemptions and repayments had been taken into account, net lending also
reached a new monthly high, rising by GBP 5.1billion.

Simon Rubinsohn, the chief economist at stockbrokers Gerrard, said: "This latest
monthly house price rise, the strongest since a 3.6 per cent jump in June 1993,
is a result of the lowest interest rates for 40 years, low unemployment figures
and rising household incomes. But whether this will remain the case for very
much longer is open to doubt." He added: "As we have made clear in the past, the
trend in employment is a key driver of the property market and if the raft of
the redundancy announcements made over the past few weeks is anything to go by,
the jobless total is heading higher."

The robust state of the housing market brought the sickly performance of the
manufacturing sector into sharp focus. A survey of purchasing managers by the
Chartered Institute of Purchasing and Supply showed manufacturing still firmly
stuck in recession.

The overall British manufacturing index was barely changed at 46.5 in September
- below the 50 level which would show steady output - from 46.4 in August.

The mixed economic snapshot came ahead of a meeting of the BoE's Monetary Policy
Committee this week to consider whether to cut interest rates further.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              386 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Hewitt calls summit to help factories

BYLINE: David Gow and Larry Elliott

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 424 words


The government yesterday called for a "manufacturing summit" next month to help
Britain's battered industry as four separate surveys showed firms in the UK, the
US, the Eurozone and Japan all suffering from a squeeze on jobs and output.

Patricia Hewitt, the trade and industry secretary, bowed to mounting pressure
from companies and trade unions to hold the crisis talks after hearing that the
aftershocks from the terrorist attacks on the US had intensified the pressure on
firms already under threat from the global slowdown and the strength of the
pound.

Speaking at the Labour Party conference where the chancellor, Gordon Brown, said
there would be new innovation tax breaks and investment allowances for industry,
Ms Hewitt said: "There is real pain in our manufacturing industry - workers with
10, 20 and 30 years of skill and experience are gutted to find themselves thrown
out of work."

The summit will bring ministers together with business and union leaders - and
chairmen of regional development agencies which are to be entrusted with
countering the downturn, which has already pushed manufacturing into recession.

Data from the chartered institute for purchasing and supply showed that the
order books for British factories are shrinking at their fastest rate for more
than 21/2 years, and that the manufacturing sector contracted for the 7th month.

The CIPS recorded a lack of demand from overseas, but said there were few
reports linking sagging demand last month with the terrorist attacks.

In the US, the monthly national association of purchasing managers' survey
indicated that American manufacturing might have been bottoming out last month
after 14 months of decline.

Analysts warned that any hope of imminent recovery had been snuffed out by the
events of September 11. With consumer confidence dropping sharply, economists
expect demand for manufacturing goods to fall.

The Reuters eurozone purchasing managers' index showed manufacturing in the
Eurozone contracting for the 6th month, and at the fastest pace since the survey
was introduced four years ago.

There were record low findings for Germany, France, Spain, Italy, Ireland and
Austria - demonstrating evidence that the slowdown is persistent and widespread
in Europe.

Japan's main measure of business performance - the quarterly Tankan survey -
reported a dramatic deterioration in confidence since the attacks on the US.

Optimism among the leading firms in Japan is falling at the second fastest rate
on record.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              387 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 2, 2001

Wider role for SAS in radical army overhaul: You've run out of time on giving up
terrorist, Blair will tell Taliban

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Michael White , and Julian Borger in Washington

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 830 words


The SAS may be expanded as a result of a review of the structure, equipment, and
strategy of Britain's armed forces in response to the global terrorist threat.

The review, to be announced by the defence secretary, Geoff Hoon, at the Labour
party conference today, is an implicit acknowledgement that Britain's armed
forces, although highly experienced in anti-terrorist warfare in Northern
Ireland, may be insufficiently mobile and flexible to take account of what is
being described as "a new kind of war" in far-flung places.

Mr Hoon's announcement will come shortly before the conference is addressed by
the prime minister, who will say that the ultimatum to the Taliban regime in
Afghanistan to hand over Osama bin Laden has expired.

"They had their chance to surrender the terrorist, they chose not to," Tony
Blair will say. He will promise that military strikes against both Bin Laden and
the Taliban - "their troops, supplies and hardware" - will be proportionate and
targeted.

In a significant step last night the US began circulating diplomatic cables to
its allies outlining the evidence that Bin Laden's al-Qaida organisation was
responsible for the attacks on New York and Washington - a move seen by some
diplomats as an essential precursor to military retaliation.

Cables were sent to Britain, Canada, and Australia, and will be followed today
and tomorrow by dispatches to other US allies around the world.

FBI investigators believe that they have uncovered the "smoking gun" implicating
Bin Laden in the attacks, which killed more than 5,700 people, by uncovering the
financial trail left by the hijackers and their accomplices. A central figure in
money transfers leading up to the attacks was Mustafa Mohamed Ahmad, a senior
Bin Laden lieutenant.

The CNN news channel quoted state department officials as saying that President
Pervez Musharraf of Pakistan would be given an "eyeball to eyeball" account of
the evidence in a meeting with the US ambassador to Islamabad, Wendy Chamberlin.

The Ministry of Defence review is certain to study whether Britain has
sufficient special forces - often lightly armed but highly motivated - and if
their equipment is relevant to combat what is described by defence specialists
as the "asymmetrical threat of terrorism". It will also take a fundamental look
at the nature of the potential terrorist threat, including how governments can
combine their massively superior military weapons, technology and deployments to
hit relatively small targets.

A defence official said: "We have thought about terrorism before, but the scale
of what happened on September 11 makes it necessary to undertake a
re-examination."

The official admitted: "We never envisaged there would be so many terrorists
willing to lose their lives, attack a major civilian target, and operate in such
a coordinated way. A very small cell of people can have a massive
disproportionate effect."

The review will concentrate on issues such as the configuration of rapid
reaction forces, methods of attacking quasi-state terror groups, and the way in
which terrorists can target the most vulnerable points of society.

It will also study the ability of terrorists to undermine public morale, and the
implications of their willingness to take casualties, often the result of
religious belief. The possible responses in the event of terrorists gaining
access to weapons of mass destruction will also be examined.

The review is described by officials as "a new chapter rather than a rewrite" of
the strategic defence review conducted three years ago by George Robertson, now
Nato general secretary.

At the Labour conference today Mr Blair is to predict that good can come out of
the evil of September 11 if the world makes a reality of inter- dependence,
fosters greater understanding between different faiths and nations, and tackles
the poverty and injustice that feed fanaticism.

The prime minister's insistence on his lifelong belief in community as a force
for good at home and abroad will contrast with his warning to anx ious delegates
that the dangers of inaction in face of the terrorist challenge outweigh the
dangers inherent in the promised counter-strike.

"Any military action will be proportionate and targeted. We will do what we
humanely can to avoid civilian casualties," he is expected to say.

The outcome of the terrorism review may not be published, and will not focus on
intelligence or domestic civil contingencies, already studied by the Cabinet
Office.

Ministers are still concerned that the supportive state of public opinion could
swing around if there were many casualties in any action. Some would like to
widen the coalition focus on Bin Laden to his most senior allies so that, if he
is not captured, the mission, including the destruction of his camps, would not
be seen as a failure. They believe the Taliban are inextricably intertwined with
the Bin Laden network.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              388 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                                October 2, 2001

Blair tells Britain: We will launch attacks on Taliban;'They had the chance to
surrender and they chose not to'

BYLINE: Catherine Macleod Political Editor And Keith Sinclair

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words


THE prime minister will today declare that Britain is on a war footing and warn
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban that their time is up.

As he positions Britain on the brink of launching a military offensive against
Osama bin Laden, the main suspect in the terrorist attacks on America, Mr Blair
will alert the Labour party to the certainty of an attack in response to the
atrocities in New York and Washington.

His speech at Labour's annual conference in Brighton could be the most important
of Mr Blair's political life, but he will devote only half of it to the
anti-terrorist strategy, concentrating for the other half on the party's
commitment to improve public services.

On the eve of the conference address, a Downing Street aide confirmed the prime
minister's determination to take whatever steps were necessary to beat the
threat from the terrorists, including an assault on military installations, and
the Taliban which harbours bin Laden.

In a pre-emptive strike against anti-war critics, Mr Blair's aide said: "The
dangers of inaction are greater than action. Any action will be proportionate
and targeted. We will do what we humanly can to avoid civilian casualties. It
will be targeted at military installations and at training camps of Osama bin
Laden and the Taliban troops, supplies and finances.

"They had the chance to surrender the terrorists, and they chose not to. We will
eliminate their hardware, disrupt their supplies and target their troops," she
added.

A senior Labour insider, who disclosed that the prime minister had written his
speech himself in one night last week, in contrast with the months of
preparation that usually go into a conference speech, said he was dealing with
issues that "had been at the heart of his politics all his life". She said: "He
believes that lasting good emerging from the show of evil must be the memorial
to the victims of the September 11 attack."

Although the prime minister is resolute, he will acknowledge the anxiety of
people who fear what may lie ahead, and will assure the conference that the
humanitarian effort should be every bit as thorough as the military response.

He will raise the stakes only 24 hours after Gordon Brown, the chancellor, began
to prepare the British people for the possibility of tax rises, though not
income tax, and short-term borrowing to meet the spending commitments of
Labour's manifesto.

Signalling his intention of sticking to ambitious public spending plans even
though he cannot predict the expense of the assault on the Taliban, the
chancellor assured the conference yesterday of "further progress on our
priorities later".

He said: "It is only by being cautious now, maintaining our discipline and
building public support for the budget and spending decisions we will have to
make in the coming months that we will be able to achieve our aim in next year's
spending review - to release further new resources for tackling poverty and for
public services."

Mr Blair's official spokesman said yesterday the government was hopeful it could
set out to the public the evidence showing Osama bin Laden was behind the
attacks in the US, but insisted that the public would only be told the evidence
"at the appropriate time".

Mr Blair indicated at the weekend that he had seen "powerful" and
"incontrovertible" evidence that bin Laden was the mastermind behind the
attacks.

Yesterday, his spokesman indicated Mr Blair was referring to evidence gathered
by British intelligence sources.

The Taliban claimed at the weekend that it was holding bin Laden at a secret
location in Afghanistan.

Pakistan's president, General Pervez Musharraf, said yesterday that he believes
the Taliban's days are numbered.

He told the BBC: "It appears that the United States will take action in
Afghanistan, and we have conveyed this to the

Taliban."

Afghanistan's exiled king and the anti-Taliban Northern Alliance agreed
yesterday to convene an emergency council of tribal and military leaders to
select a new head of state for the beleaguered nation.

The US has indicated its support for the king's efforts to convene the so
-called loya jirga, or grand national assembly, a traditional institution in
Afghanistan which has fallen by the wayside during decades of war. The US
support is part of its efforts to unite opposition to the Taliban.

President George W Bush said yesterday that progress was being made on many
fronts in the war against terrorism and cited hundreds of arrests in America and
overseas, international co-operation and initial success in seizing terrorist
assets.

Police in London yesterday arrested a 43-year-old man under anti-terrorism
legislation but refused to say whether he was suspected of links to the
September 11 attacks.

The first British humanitarian aid flight to Afghanistan was last night delayed
as officials awaited clearance for the plane to land.

LOAD-DATE: October 02, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FOOD RELIEF: A worker takes a break at a food storage depot in
Peshawar. The first UN food convoy since the start of the crisis arrived in
Kabul yesterday. Aid shipments Page 3 Picture: Aziz Haidar/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              389 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE: MINISTERS SAY ATROCITIES STRENGTHEN CASE FOR JOINING
THE SINGLE CURRENCY;
 EUROPE

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Charles Clarke: 'A strong political case for euro'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 425 words


PRO-EUROPEAN ministers said yesterday that the terrorist attacks in the United
States have strengthened the case for Britain joining the single European
currency.

They reopened their campaign for a referendum on the euro before the next
general election by arguing that the need for greater international co
-operation has been illustrated by the atrocities.

Charles Clarke, the Labour Party chairman, said the political case for joining
the euro had been made "stronger" by the new world climate since 11 September.
But he admitted that it was too soon to tell whether the economic case had
strengthened or weakened.

Another pro-European minister said: "The terrorist attacks have shown that it is
pretty futile to think any country can go it alone. EU members are standing firm
against terrorism and this will help us make the case for closer integration."

Patricia Hewitt, the Secretary of State for Trade and Industry, acknowledged
that joining the euro could ease the pressure on British industry. She told the
Labour conference: "More than any other sector, manufacturing firms trade in
Europe. So jobs in manufacturing are particularly vulnerable to the exchange
rate. That is why - provided our economic conditions are met - it is in the
interests of British manufacturing workers for Britain to join the European
single currency."

Simon Murphy, leader of Labour's members of the European Parliament, will warn
the conference today that Britain should not remain "on the sidelines" of Europe
and called for an early assessment of the five tests which the Government says
should be met before joining the euro. "The longer we stay outside the euro, the
greater our loss of influence," he will say.

Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, who is sceptical about an early referendum,
admitted in his conference speech that the events since the terrorist attacks
had shown Britain "gained strength from our membership of the EU and (we) are
stronger acting in concert with others than we could ever be alone".

But he insisted the decision on the euro should be made on economic rather than
political grounds. His aides added that it was "far too early" to analyse the
impact of the terrorist acts on the British economy.

Britain in Europe, which supports the euro, held a reception in Brighton last
night attended by Mr Clarke, the Leader of the Commons Robin Cook, the Secretary
of State for Transport, Local Government and the Regions Stephen Byers, and the
Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport, Tessa Jowell.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              390 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                                October 02, 2001

Schroeder exploits terror attacks to promote EU;

SECTION:  Pg. 7

LENGTH: 201 words


GERMAN Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder cynically exploited the United States
terrorist attacks yesterday in a bid to promote European Union propaganda.

He told the Labour Party conference: "Europe is the most successful political
project in our varied and sometimes bloody history.

"Europe is not only the people's answer to war.

"I am convinced that Europe will also play a vital role in the peoples' answer
to terrorism, " Chancellor Schroeder declared.

Speaking in German, he said that, in view of new forms of threat, "we should do
more to advocate the successful form of co-operative security practised in
Europe as an idea to be emulated by other regions of the world."

He added that it was important "for Great Britain, under the leadership of Tony
Blair and Labour, to join us and our European partners without competitive
squabbling and petty jealousies."

And Chancellor Schroeder insisted that the recent terrorist atrocities in the US
had increased the need for European security services and military forces to
intensify their exchange of experiences.

He said that the "first objective" must be to "develop the Euro-Atlantic
community as an anchor for security."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

GRAPHIC: MINI SUMMIT: Chancellor Gerhard Schroeder addressing conference.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              391 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                                October 2, 2001

Eradicate terror groups now.

BYLINE: Pauline Hawkins (author email phawkins@newsquest.co.uk)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 175 words

DATELINE: Accrington,Blackburn,Burnley,Clitheroe,Colne,Darwen,Nelson,Rawtenstall



IN response to Mr William Duffy's remarks (Letters, September 19) about Tony
Blair and Britain's support of military action against terrorism, under normal
circumstances I would agree with him but these circumstances are far from
normal.

This is a fight against terrorism on an international scale in order to protect
our country and its citizens from tyrannical regimes which pose a significant
threat to democracy and freedom-loving people around the world.

Several hundred British people perished in those atrocities in New York and so
the whole nation should endorse any military action Mr Blair deems fit. I wonder
if Mr Duffy would adopt a totally different viewpoint if one of his family were
to be a victim of these terrorist acts?

We can no longer allow the continuation of any form of terrorism and must
eradicate those groups responsible, together with the countries that support,
endorse or harbour terrorists.

PAUL McGURTY, (Deputy chairman, Blackburn Conservative Party), Wharfdale Close,
Feniscowles, Blackburn.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              392 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 2, 2001

Military action is tempered with aid

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.10

LENGTH: 748 words


LAST night a plane was being readied to take off from a British airfield to
deliver humanitarian aid to Afghan refugees.  Within days, it now seems certain,
allied aircraft will be flying to the same region of the world to launch an
attack in response to the terrorist assault on America.

Britain's so -called "bread and bombs" policy, combining aid for Afghan refugees
with military action against those terrorists harboured by the rebel Taliban
Government, is now well underway.  Earlier yesterday the first food trucks since
the September 11 attacks - carrying 218 tons of wheat - arrived in Kabul.  In
less than a week the city could be at the centre of the first major
international conflict of the 21st century.

That these apparently contradictory efforts should be going on is just one more
example of how the world has been turned upside down since the suicide
sky-jackings claimed over 6,000 lives in the United States three weeks ago.

But they are also evidence of the way the West - and in particular the US
Government - has mounted a measured response to the mass murder of its citizens,
rather than going to war with all guns blazing as soon as it thought it had a
culprit in its sights.

It's vital that sane and sober attitude, which is responsible for holding
together a world wide coalition of opposition to the sponsors of this terrorist
atrocity, continues.

Public opinion in the United States understandably demands retribution.  It is
right that military action is taken to show those who plotted the attacks on the
World Trade Centre and the Pentagon that they will be hunted down and dealt
with.  But to make a rash move now, when so much diplomatic effort has gone into
marshalling global forces in the fight against terrorism, would be a huge
mistake.

Nevertheless retaliation is clearly coming.  Sources last night indicated that
Prime Minister Tony Blair will use today's keynote speech to the Labour Party
conference to give notice to the Taliban that time is running out.  If they
don't close down their terrorist training camps and hand over Osama bin Laden,
the man believed to be behind the attacks, then military action is imminent.
The deadline has already passed.

In probably its starkest terms yet, Downing Street yesterday underlined the
inevitability of an allied attack on Afghanistan that now appears to be only
days away.  The Prime Minister's official spokesman told reporters: "Hopefully
the Taliban understand the seriousness of the situation they are facing."

But still there is uncertainty about precisely what form military action will
take.  The apparent relish that Taliban warlords have for a fight is an
illustration of just what a difficult and potentially protracted conflict
America and her allies could be entering into.

One military expert indicated yesterday that Washington acknowledged it was in a
situation that could best be described by the acronym AOS - all options stink.
The one option that has been discounted is do nothing.  That was clear from the
moment the second plane ploughed into the world trade centre and it was obvious
that what the world was witnessing was no accident.

The bread and bombs policy is, therefore, the best option we have and, executed
carefully, could yet deliver up the terrorist leaders that must be brought to
justice, while at the same time helping avert a humanitarian disaster in and
around Afghanistan.

It might not give the US television networks the dramatic footage that we saw at
the start of the Gulf War, when cruise-missiles were seen to streak down the
main street in Baghdad towards military and political targets.  But it might
just help the fragile coalition that has held secure since this terrorist
atrocity, survive the retaliation.

This is, as Tony Blair said, a different kind of war.  As we saw last night, it
is war that is fought with humanitarian aid - with tents for shelter and wheat
for bread - as well as with spy planes and members of the shadowy special
forces.

This is not a conflict in which an enemy can be bombed into submission.  There
is little of any military consequence in Afghanistan to bomb.

But it is a conflict, nevertheless, in which bombs and bullets are going to have
to be used; in which more innocent people, as well as the guilty, are going to
suffer and which has the potential, as do all international conflicts, to
escalate.

For all those reasons It must be carried through in a careful, sane and measured
way.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              393 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 2, 2001

Let's keep a cool head and start talking to each other

SECTION: FEATURES: GENERAL, Pg.4

LENGTH: 312 words


WHILE we all abhor the terrorist attacks in the USA I cannot help think that
this was not altogether unexpected. We in Great Britain have suffered 30 years
of murders and bombings from the IRA and other subversive organisations.

The US foreign policy has been at best confusing and at worse dangerous. They
have continuously backed Israel and not listened to the complaints of the
occupied population of Palestine.

Let us not forget a certain section of the US population openly supported and
financed the IRA. Britain backed and armed Iraq in its fight against Iran in the
80s only to go to war at the behest of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia in the 90s. And
who gave Israel the country of Palestine - Britain.

I feel it is time for very cool heads. After all "revenge is best served cold".
We should not go rushing in to bomb the innocent population of a very small,
poor nation just because their oppressive rulers fail to hand over an alleged
terrorist.

Governments of the world should be using the UN to talk to each other and we
should all be more ethical in our dealings with others. If we can remove the
need for certain sections of the population to feel their only course of action
is to take up the gun and the bomb then we are well on the way to world peace.

How can this be done? By talking.

J E Mager

Hayle

Kid gloves no use

WITH reference to Jane Parsons' letter, it is useless trying to fight terrorism
with kid gloves. The victims of the terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre
were certainly not treated with kid gloves and neither should the terrorists and
those who harbour them be. Neither should they be appeased in anyway. They must
be hit fast, hit hard and hit right where it hurts most. Trying to stop
terrorism by appeasement or with kid gloves, is like trying to stop a man-eating
tiger with a water pistol.

R Hancox

Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              394 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 2, 2001

NEWS: OTHER

SECTION: NEWS: OTHER, Pg.2

LENGTH: 646 words


SAS could be expanded

THE SAS could be expanded to combat the threat of global terrorism, it was
reported today. Defence Secretary Geoff Hoon is to announce a review of the
structure, equipment and strategy of Britain's armed forces at Labour's party
conference, the Guardian said. The Ministry of Defence is certain to study
whether Britain has enough special forces and has the relevant equipment for the
new type of terrorism, the newspaper said. The review will also look at the
nature of the potential terrorist threat, including methods of attacking
quasi-state terror groups and the configuration of rapid reaction forces. A
defence official told the Guardian: "We have thought about terrorism before, but
the scale of what happened on September 11 makes it necessary to undertake a
re-examination."

Anti-terrorist arrest

ANTI -terrorist officers yesterday arrested a 43-year-old man under the
Terrorism Act but refused to confirm if he was suspected of links with the US
atrocities. Officers from the Metropolitan Police Anti-Terrorist Branch arrested
the man at premises in central London at 9.40am, said a Scotland Yard
spokeswoman. A residential address in south east London was also searched.
Meanwhile, a 36 -year-old man detained at Gatwick Airport under anti-terrorist
legislation on Friday was still being questioned by Sussex police last night.
The man, who has not been named, was arrested at the West Sussex airport while
travelling from the Middle East to the US. Another two men remain in custody
after being arrested in Leicester on Tuesday. The deadline for questioning them
under the Terrorism Act expires today.

Sears attack 'foiled'

A POSSIBLE terrorist plot to attack America's tallest building has been foiled
by the FBI. Plans found on five people arrested last week suggested they could
have been planning a truck bombing of the 1,450ft Sears Tower in Chicago, the
third tallest building in the world. The FBI and federal police made the arrests
in Chicago, Detroit and Iowa. Four of the five had bogus licences to drive
trucks containing hazardous materials, ABC News reported.

False documents charge

A MAN who lives in a Washington suburb has been charged with helping obtain
false identification documents for two men accused of crashing the airliner into
the Pentagon. Luis Martinez-Flores, 28, was charged with falsely certifying that
Hani Hanjour and Khalid Almihdhar lived in an address in Virginia. The
certifications were on state registration forms needed by the two to obtain a
Virginia identification card. Martinez-Flores, the second person charged in
Virginia with assisting the hijackers with false documents, appeared in court
yesterday.

'Forget vengeance'

NEW York's Cardinal Edward Egan, who ministered to the wounded and dying in the
World Trade Centre attacks, said that retaliation must have no place in the US
response for terrorist outrages against his city and Washington. With the pope
listening, Egan delivered the opening speech to a month-long Vatican gathering
of bishops from around the world. He said: "We seek justice doing justice. The
words like vengeance, retaliation and so forth are not the words of civilised
people and not of Christians."

Ex-para in command

AN ex-paratrooper with experience of leading troops in the Balkans and the Gulf
War is commanding a British military exercise in the Middle East. Lieutenant
General John Reith, 52, will oversee Operation Saif Sareea - the Arabic for
swift sword - which involves more than 20,000 British troops and a naval
taskforce in the Gulf state of Oman. The exercise, which was planned months
before the terrorist atrocities in the United States, involves the biggest Royal
Navy deployment since the Falklands conflict. Lieutenant General Reid had
achieved the rank of Lieutenant Colonel by 1984 after steadily rising through
the ranks.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              395 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

POLL SHOWS SUPPORT FOR US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 173 words


THREE-QUARTERS of Britons believe the country is right to stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with the US following the terrorist attacks, according to an ICM poll
for the BBC.

But the survey for the Panorama programme, Britain on the Brink, also showed
that more than half (56pc) believed military action should cease once suspect
Osama bin Laden was killed or captured.

The findings demonstrated overwhelming, but qualified, support for Tony Blair's
stance.

They also revealed that most people did not perceive the threat to themselves
and their family to be any greater since the attacks.

Almost 60pc said the risk of being caught up in a terrorist attack was the same
as before September 11.

Other results from the poll of 1,000 adults, echoed the Prime Minister's opinion
that the Muslim community must not be blamed for the attacks.

Only 29pc of those surveyed said that the hijackings had made people around them
more hostile towards Muslims in Britain, while 62pc said they had made no
difference at all.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              396 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

CHOIR STILL BOUND FOR NEW YORK;
 CHORAL

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 210 words


DESPITE the terrorist attacks on America last month, Morriston Orpheus Choir
will fulfil its plans for a concert in New York's Carnegie Hall on October 21.

The choir's appearance at the famous venue is regarded as a tangible show of
support for the citizens of New York and is being widely welcomed by them.

The UK in NY festival will also go ahead as planned from October 24 to 28 when
groups from throughout Britain, including Wales, will travel to New York for a
cultural festival.

The festival has been renamed UK with NY to show its support.

Before the Morriston choir visits America, conductor Alwyn Humphreys will visit
New Zealand.

He will appear as guest conductor at the Massed Male Choirs of New Zealand
Festival at Christchurch, which involves two concerts on October 13.

The participating choirs come from all over New Zealand including Auckland,
Dunedin, Nelson, Wellington and Christchurch.

Some of the choirs were formed as recently as 1995 but others were formed as
long ago as 1885.

Humphreys will also be conducting the joint forces of brass band, boys' choir
and tenor soloist as well as the 300 male voices on the stage of the
Christchurch Town Hall, where Morriston Orpheus has performed twice before.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              397 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 2, 2001, Tuesday

CASINO OPERATOR FACES HUGE PAYOUT;
 LEISURE: LCI'S LAS VEGAS CLUB ALADDIN FILES FOR BANKRUPTCY PROTECTION

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 173 words


BRITAIN'S leading casino operator London Clubs International (LCI) was yesterday
facing a huge payout after its Las Vegas club Aladdin filed for bankruptcy
protection on Friday.

LCI was in frantic talks with its bank backers to avoid paying its share of a
debt repayments bill that could run to $ 150m (pounds 100m).

The group, which owns six casinos in London, has a 40pc stake in the Aladdin
venture alongside the investment arm of US property group Sommer Trust.

The glitzy Aladdin resort, which includes a casino and a 2,567 room hotel, has
been affected by poor trading since opening little more than a year ago.

An LCI spokesman said the last straw was the impact of the terror attack in the
US three weeks ago.

"Since September 11 there has been a severe downturn in the market. Americans
are not flying to Las Vegas to have a good time, " he said.

Aladdin's decision to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection triggers debt
repayment clauses in a deal struck between LCI, Sommer and Aladdin's banks.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              398 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                                October 1, 2001

Taliban's UK millions are frozen;
 Terror in America: OFFER: Afghan regime will hand over Bin Laden if evidence is
produced

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 545 words


BRITAIN has frozen 61 million of financial assets suspected of belonging to
Afghanistan's Taliban rulers, Chancellor Gordon Brown was announcing today.

In the latest action since the September 11 terror attacks assets were frozen in
the London branch of a European bank.

Mr Brown was using his speech to Labour's annual conference in Brighton this
morning to underline the importance of cutting off the flow of finance to
terrorists.

In his speech, he was to declare:

"It has now fallen to our generation to bear the burden of defeating
international terrorism. Ready access to finance is the lifeblood of modern
terrorism. No institution, bank, or financial house anywhere in the world should
be harbouring or processing funds for terrorists."

Mr Brown was also due to stress the Government's spending plans for public
services would not be revised.

Meanwhile, Afghanistan's Taliban rulers have claimed Osama bin Laden is under
their control and called on the United States to open negotiations to lift the
threat of military action against their country.

And in London, Tony Blair said he had seen "incontrovertible" evidence linking
Osama bin Laden to the attacks and that it was now vital that his al-Qaida
terror network was "eradicated".

The Taliban's claim that it had bin Laden under its control was made by its
ambassador to Pakistan, Abdul Salam Zaeef, at a news conference in Islamabad
yesterday.

"He's in Afghanistan. He is under our control. Wherever he is, he's in a secret
place but that doesn't mean that he is out of the control of the Islamic Emirate
of Afghanistan, " he told reporters. "He's in a place which cannot be located by
anyone."

He said the Taliban would be prepared to open negotiations with the US on
handing him over if America produced its evidence linking him to the attacks.

He added: "If they attack without any evidence or unless this case goes through
the proper court process, any attack will be a terrorist attack."

But in Washington, the White House defence secretary Donald Rumsfeld added: "It
was just a few days ago that they said they didn't know where he was, so I have
no reason to believe anything a Taliban representative would say."

Although the Taliban would not disclose where bin Laden was hiding, sources with
knowledge of the regime indicated he was in the Bagram district of Helmand
province, about 100 miles north west of the city of Kandahar.

The area is lined with mountains, easily defended and close enough to Kandahar,
the seat of the Taliban authority, to enable the religious militias to keep in
touch with bin Laden.

Pakistan has been trying to convince the hardline leadership that it risks its
very survival by refusing to surrender bin Laden, a move the Taliban says would
conflict with Afghan customs and its interpretation of Islamic tenets.

Back at home three-quarters of Britons believe the country is right to stand
"shoulder to shoulder"with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks,
according to an ICM poll for the BBC.

But the survey, conducted for a Panorama programme, Britain on the Brink, also
showed more than half believed military action should cease once chief suspect
Osama bin Laden was killed or captured.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              399 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: NEW LAWS TO BEAT TERRORISM

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 88 words


EMERGENCY laws were being drafted today to speed up extradition cases, tighten
asylum regulations and allow terrorist suspects who flee to Britain to be
detained indefinitely.

Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised to push through the new powers to ensure
Britain does not become a 'safe haven' for international terrorists in the wake
of the US terror attacks.

New legislation would be laid before Parliament within four to six weeks and Mr
Blair urged MPs from all parties to support the Government's proposals.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              400 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: TALIBAN ASSETS ARE FROZEN;
 POUNDS 61M SWOOP ON EURO BANK IN LONDON PLEDGE: Chancellor Gordon Brown

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 356 words


BRITAIN has frozen pounds 61 million of financial assets suspected of belonging
to Afghanistan's Taliban rulers.

In the latest action since the September 11 terror attacks, assets were frozen
in the London branch of a European bank.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was using his speech to Labour's annual conference in
Brighton today to underline the importance of cutting off the flow of finance to
terrorists - what he termed the 'lifeblood' of modern terrorism.

Senior Treasury sources said that the UK had implemented fully financial
sanctions against Osama bin Laden, the Saudi dissident who is the chief suspect
in the attacks in the US, and his Taliban protectors.

They added that the UK's Terrorism Act 2000 implemented the United Nations'
convention on suppressing the financing of terrorism.

The UK, they argued, already has one of the most rigorous anti-terrorism regimes
in the world, but further measures were being drawn up to strengthen it further.

Clean

The new Terrorism Bill would adopt the principles of the Proceeds of Crime Bill
so that action could be taken against 'clean' money destined for terrorism
purposes as well as criminal funds.

The Bill would make provision for the monitoring of bank accounts containing
this 'clean' money; impose stricter obligations on banks to report their
suspicions; and create powers to freeze accounts from the outset of an
investigation.

Britain would also be urging co-ordinated international action against terrorist
financing, including ratification of the UN convention on the suppression of
such cash flows.

In his speech, Mr Brown was to declare: 'It has now fallen to our generation to
bear the burden of defeating international terrorism.

Spending

'Ready access to finance is the lifeblood of modern terrorism. No institution,
no bank, no financial house anywhere in the world should be harbouring or
processing funds for terrorists.'

Mr Brown was also stressing that the Government's spending plans for the public
services would not be revised because of the shock which the terrorist attacks
delivered to the global economy.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              401 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERROR: US GREEN LIGHT

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


THREE-quarters of Britons believe the country is right to stand 'shoulder to
shoulder' with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks, according to
an ICM poll.

But the survey, conducted for tonight's Panorama: Britain on the Brink, also
shows that more than half (56 per cent) believe military action should cease
once chief suspect Osama bin Laden is killed or captured.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              402 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                                October 1, 2001

Britons back U.S.;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 67 words


NATIONAL: Three-quarters of Britons believe the country is right to stand
"shoulder to shoulder" with the U.S. following the September 11 terrorist
attacks, according to an ICM poll for the BBC.

The survey, conducted for the Panorama programme, Britain on the Brink, also
showed that 56 per cent believed military action should cease once chief suspect
Osama bin Laden was killed or captured.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              403 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

BRITAIN ACTS TO TO STOP TERRORISTS

BYLINE: Gavin Cordon TOUGH ACTION: Prime Minister Tony Blair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 324 words


DRACONIAN emergency laws were being drafted today to speed up extradition cases,
tighten asylum regulations and allow terrorist suspects who flee to Britain to
be detained indefinitely.

Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised to push through the new powers to ensure
Britain does not become a "safe haven" for international terrorists in the wake
of the US terror attacks.

He also said he had received "powerful, incontrovertible evidence" from
intelligence agencies linking the Saudi-born millionaire Osama bin Laden to the
attacks America.

New legislation would be laid before Parliament within four to six weeks and Mr
Blair urged MPs from all parties.

"I hope in this new situation people realise we have got to act. I think our
first duty has got to be to protect our citizens."

In Afghanistan's capital, Kabul, the first World Food Programme convoy since the
start of the crisis arrived today.

Yesterday, the Taliban said they have Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect in the
US terrorist atrocities, under their control.

Fighting continued today in the north of Afghanistan, with one district whose
capture the opposition alliance had reported yesterday apparently changing hands
again.

A car bomb planted today by a suspected Islamic militant exploded near the
entrance of the state legislature in India's summer capital of Kashmir, killing
at least 15 people.

Russian troops today claimed to have killed a Chechen rebel chief, believed to
be have ties with Osama bin Laden.

Turkish police today detained Osama bin Laden's brother for questioning. It is
not clear why . Osama bin Laden is estranged from his family

Three-quarters of Britons believe the country is right to stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with the US, according to an ICM poll for Panorama. But 56 per cent
believed military action should cease once Osama bin Laden was killed or
captured.

Terror fight tops Labour agenda, Page 14

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              404 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

TERROR FIGHT TOPS AGENDA;
 LABOUR PARTY CONFERENCE 2001

BYLINE: Fiona Scott Political Editor SENDING A SIGNAL: John Prescott arrives at
the conference.

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 348 words


THE Labour Party's annual conference resumed today with the international terror
crisis still overshadowing domestic political debate.

The major set piece speech of the second day of the Brighton conference, to be
delivered by Chancellor Gordon Brown, was focusing largely on the repercussions
of the September 11 attacks on New York, Washington and Pennsylvania.

Mr Brown was announcing that Britain has frozen pounds 61million of financial
assets linked to Afghanistan's Taliban rulers, who are shielding Saudi dissident
Osama bin Laden, prime suspect in the attacks.

Mr Brown was also stressing that the government's spending plans for public
services would not be revised because of the shock the terror attacks delivered
to the global economy.

Yesterday, Deputy Prime Minister John Prescott delivered a solemn and measured
speech touching on terrorism, election success and public services.

In a subdued conference hall, under some of the tightest security ever, he told
delegates the event was going ahead to show terrorists did not win.

He said: "We want to send a powerful signal that Britain is proud of democracy.
Party conferences are part of the very fabric of that democracy. We will never
allow our democratic decisions to be slaughtered by terrorism."

He said the world changed forever on September 11 with the World Trade Centre
attrocity but the outrage also rekindled people's solidarity and "reaffirmed our
humanity."

He said the response must be measured and rooted in justice.

"If we can organise a global consensus against international terrorism, I tell
you we can organise a global consensus against world poverty. That is what I
call social justice."

He did not ignore one of the main concerns being raised by party members before
September 11 - improving Britain's schools, hospitals, transport and other
public services.

Plans for these are even more challenging as Britain faces a potentially large
bill for fighting the terrorists.

Mr Prescott said public services were at the top of the government's agenda.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              405 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

BRITONS BACK US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 88 words


THREE-QUARTERS of Britons believe the country is right to stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks, according to
an ICM poll for the BBC.

But the survey, conducted for last night's Panorama: Britain on the Brink, also
shows that more than half (56pc) believe military action should cease once chief
suspect Osama bin Laden is killed or captured.

Almost 60pc said that they believed the risk of being caught up in a terrorist
attack was the same as before September 11.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              406 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

BROWN'S BLUEPRINT TO FIGHT TERROR ... AND THE RECESSION;
 THE CHANCELLOR

BYLINE: Paul Sinclair

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 576 words


THE Treasury has frozen pounds 60million of Taliban cash, officials confirmed
yesterday.

And Chancellor Gordon Brown will today unveil measures to try to stop an
estimated pounds 2.6billion of drug and terrorist money being laundered every
year.

In his conference speech, Brown will outline plans to give the security services
the power to monitor bank accounts, even where they suspect "clean money" is
being used to fund terrorists.

Financial institutions will have a new duty to report any suspicious accounts.

And law officers will be able to freeze bank accounts from the start of any
investigation.

The Treasury has frozen three UK Taliban accounts since the September 11 terror
attacks.

The latest swoop came on Friday at a European bank in London.

Brown will tell Labour delegates: "It has now fallen to our generation to bear
the burden of defeating international terrorism.

"Ready access to finance is the lifeblood of modern terrorism.

"No institution, no bank, no finance house anywhere in the world should be
harbouring or processing funds for terrorists."

The Treasury estimates that of the pounds 4billion per year which leaves Britain
in currency transactions, 65 per cent is drug or terrorist money.

Britain already leads the way in imposing United Nations sanctions on money
-laundering. The UK is one of only four nations to have implemented the
regulations, along with Sri Lanka, Uzbekistan and Botswana.

But other countries have been slow to follow.

Brown's tough message is set to be matched by Tony Blair, who will announce new
measures on detaining terrorist suspects.

The Prime Minister wants to end the automatic right to claim asylum for people
accused of backing terrorism, and to allow the authorities to detain them
indefinitely.

Blair said: "I hope, in this new situation, people realise we have got to act to
protect our citizens.

"We cannot have a situation in which it takes years to extradite people.

"We cannot have a situation in which people come in and abuse our asylum
procedures and are then allowed to remain in this country.

"And we cannot have a situation where we know someone is a suspected terrorist
but we do not have the legal power to detain them indefinitely until we find a
country to deport them to."

Blair got the backing of Labour's National Executive yesterday to do whatever he
believes is necessary to combat terrorism.

The key event today will be Brown's speech. He will outline how he believes the
economy will fare in the impending downturn, made worse by the terrorist
conflict.

Recession is likely to mean the Treasury gets less tax money and pays out more
for benefits.

And with the added cost of any military action, Brown will come under pressure
to cut public spending or raise taxes.

But he will make it clear he intends to do neither, while suggesting he may be
prepared to borrow a limited amount of money if necessary.

Brown is set to say: "Our spending plans are based on cautious assumptions. We
will hold to our three-year spending plans, not only for social justice, but
because they are affordable and right for our economy.

"Testing times demand more discipline, not less.

"We have not come this far together, and taken so many long-term decisions, to
put stability and prudence at risk. We know these are the foundations of
achieving the ambitious goals we have been elected to achieve."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              407 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 01, 2001, Monday

Channel 4 to screen gas attack drama

BYLINE: By Matt Born

SECTION: Pg. 07

LENGTH: 257 words

CHANNEL 4 is to go ahead with screening a controversial drama about a fictional
terrorist anthrax attack on Glasgow despite Government criticism of the media
for whipping up public anxiety about biological and chemical weapons.

The broadcaster confirmed that it had considered rescheduling Gas Attack in the
light of the raids on America.

But the channel said it had decided to broadcast the programme because the
issues it raised were now more relevant than ever.

The 75-minute drama tells the story of a Right-wing extremist releasing anthrax
on a community of asylum seekers living on a rundown housing estate in Glasgow.
It will be shown, as planned, at 9pm next Monday.

The decision not to reschedule the programme comes despite Government calls for
the media to be "responsible" in their output.

Downing Street has criticised the press for creating panic following a spate of
reports about the theoretical impact of a chemical or biological attack on
Britain.

Amid widespread media speculation that Islamic extremists had already targeted
Britain, army surplus stores around the country reported a run on gas masks and
protective clothing.

Even before the plea by Downing Street, a number of programmes deemed
inappropriate had been dropped, including a new Channel 4 gameshow, Crossfire.

But Channel 4 defended its decision to show Gas Attack, insisting that the film
was "not alarmist". A spokesman said: "Although it is a drama, Gas Attack has
been very carefully researched for accuracy."
[PS]News: [ES]

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              408 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 1, 2001

UK not immune to slump, says Brown

BYLINE: Alex Brummer

SECTION: Pg. 56

LENGTH: 180 words


GORDON Brown is to keep a tight rein on public spending amid growing City fears
that the world is heading for an 'outright recession'.

Brokers CSFB are the latest to forecast a global slump following the terrorist
attacks in the US. In one of the gloomiest predictions so far, chief economist
Giles Keating claims prospects are the worst for 50 years.

The Chancellor may have to lower growth forecasts in his Pre-Budget Report in
November.

He will acknowledge in his speech to the Labour conference today that Britain
cannot be immune from the downturn in the global economic outlook, but will
stress that the UK economy is fundamentally sound.

Government projections for the public finances are based on 2.25pc growth this
year, a figure now disputed by the International Monetary Fund and most private
sector forecasters, who are projecting 2pc or less.

This, together with spending on foot-and-mouth and peace operations in Macedonia
and elsewhere, means that the contingency reserve of GBP 2.8bn is nearly gone,
even before the terrorist attacks.


LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              409 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                October 1, 2001

Britain freezes 'Taliban's GBP 61m'

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.02

LENGTH: 323 words


Draconian emergency laws were being drafted today to speed up extradition cases,
tighten asylum regulations and allow terrorist suspects who flee to Britain to
be detained indefinitely.

Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised to push through the new powers to ensure
Britain does not become a "safe haven" for international terrorists in the wake
of the U.S. terror attacks.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was today announcing Britain had frozen GBP 61m of
financial assets suspected of belonging to Afghanistan's Taliban rulers.

Mr Blair yesterday said action would be taken to prevent billions of pounds a
year of illegal funds being "laundered" through bureaux de change.

The Prime Minister also said he had received "powerful, incontrovertible
evidence" from the intelligence agencies linking the Saudi-born millionaire
Osama bin Laden to the attacks in New York and Washington.

New legislation would be laid before Parliament within four to six weeks and Mr
Blair urged MPs from all parties to support the Government's proposals.

He said: "I hope in this new situation people realise we have got to act. I
think our first duty has got to be to protect our citizens."

Concerns that Britain is being used as a base for terrorists were highlighted by
the appearance in court in London last week of an Algerian pilot who the FBI
claims was the "lead instructor" to the September 11 hijackers.

Lotfi Raissi, who appeared before Bow Street magistrates, is fighting
extradition to the U.S. in a case that could last between 18 months and three
years, costing the taxpayer millions of pounds.

Government sources said that, as part of the legislative package, ministers were
looking at ways of shortening and simplifying the appeals process to stop
terrorist suspects delaying extradition by "playing it long".

It was not immediately clear whether the legislation would be introduced
retrospectively to catch cases like Raissi's.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              410 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Derby Evening Telegraph

                                October 1, 2001

Plans to speed up extradition

SECTION: GENERAL, Pg.02

LENGTH: 323 words


PRIME Minister Tony Blair promised yesterday to push through draconian powers to
ensure Britain did not become a "safe haven" for international terrorists.

Emergency legislation being drawn up in the wake of the U.S. terror attacks will
speed up extradition cases, tighten the asylum laws and enable indefinite
detention of terrorist suspects who flee to Britain from abroad.

And in a new crackdown on terrorist finances, Mr Blair said action would be
taken to prevent billions of pounds a year of illegal funds being "laundered"
through bureaux de change.

New legislation would be laid before Parliament within four to six weeks and Mr
Blair urged MPs from all parties to support the proposals.

He said: "I hope in this new situation people realise we have got to act. I
think our first duty has got to be to protect our citizens."

Concerns that Britain is being used as a base for terrorists were highlighted by
the appearance in court in London last week of an Algerian pilot who the FBI
allege was the "lead instructor" to the September 11 hijackers.

Lotfi Raissi, who appeared before Bow Street magistrates, is fighting
extradition to the U.S. in a case that could last between 18 months and three
years, costing the taxpayer millions of pounds.

Meanwhile, Home Secretary David Blunkett is also considering changes to the
incitement laws to make it an offence to whip up religious hatred.

The move is aimed at both white racists and Muslim extremists who call for
attacks on Christians and Jews.

It follows a meeting last week in Downing Street when Muslim community leaders
urged Mr Blair to introduce tougher laws to make it harder to sidestep existing
anti -racist legislation.

Mr Blair sought to play down fears that the Government's emergency legislation
represented an infringement of civil liberties.

"We will of course proceed with very great care. This concerns only a small
number of cases," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                     Copyright 2001 Derby Evening Telegraph

                              411 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                                October 1, 2001

On the brink of war: Investigation: Three arrested in Germany: Gatwick suspect
took hijackers' route

BYLINE: Vikram Dodd and John Hooper in Berlin

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 462 words


Security chiefs across the world made more arrests and continued to question
suspects yesterday as the investigation into the plot behind the attacks on New
York and Washington continued.

The latest arrests came in Britain, Germany and the west African state of
Mauritania.

Detectives in Britain were still questioning a 36-year-old man arrested at
Gatwick airport on Friday under the Terrorism Act. Sussex police gave few
details but it is understood the detained man is Arab and arrived in the UK on a
flight from somewhere in the Middle East, believed to be Dubai.

He was scheduled to have immediately boarded a plane to the US when he was
arrested by Special Branch officers.

The route the man took was reported to be almost identical to that flown by 11
of the 19 hijackers behind the September 11 attacks on the US.

Police refused yesterday to say whether the man was being held in connection
with the plot behind the attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

A Sussex police spokesman said: "He was arrested in transit for the US. Due to
the nature of this investigation we are unable to discuss this matter any
further at this time."

In a separate development, Kamel Daoudi, arrested last week in Leicester, has
been extradited to France where he is wanted by police.

Daoudi, 23, is alleged to be an associate of Djamel Begal, the head of one of
the world's most extreme Islamist terror groups Takfir-wal-Hijra (anathema and
exile).

Fresh details emerged yesterday about Zacarias Moussaoui, suspected of being the
20th hijacker. He lived in Brixton and was arrested before the September 11
attacks after trying to gain experience on a 747 flight simulator, but allegedly
telling an instructor he had no need to learn how to land the plane.

German authorities said a phone call was intercepted before the attacks between
Moussaoui and a suspected terrorist who shared a flat with Mohamed Atta, one of
the hijackers. Investigators are trying to establish whether Moussaoui was
responsible for linking up members of the European terrorist cells alleged to
have been part of Osama bin Laden's network.

In Germany, the federal prosecutor's office announced that two Yemenis and a
Turk had been picked up on Thursday in Wiesbaden near Frankfurt on suspicion of
belonging to a fundamentalist terror organisation involved in plotting attacks
in Germany.

But the authorities had no evidence linking the trio to the September 11
attacks, the prosecutor's office said in a statement. The men were charged with
possession of weapons and forging documents.

In Mauritania a telecommunications engineer has been arrested. Mouhamedou Ould
Slahi is a relative of Mahfouz Ould al-Walid, a close associate of Bin Laden.


LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              412 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

WAR ON TERRORISM: ISLAMISTS - FRENCH OFFICIALS ACCUSE BLAIR OF 'HYPOCRISY' FOR
ALLOWING UK TO HARBOUR SUSPECTED MILITANTS

BYLINE: John Lichfield In Paris Zacarias Moussaoui spent several years in London

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 617 words


BRITAIN WAS accused of hypocrisy by the French press yesterday for presenting
itself as an implacable warrior against terrorism despite London being a hot
-bed of radical Islamist activity.

The fact that 11 of the 19 suicide hijackers may have spent time in Britain is
no coincidence, according to French officials. They say that London has become a
breeding ground for Islamist attacks on Western and moderate Arab targets,
partly because of the laxity of successive British governments, and partly
because of British traditions of freedom of speech and the UK's strong links
with the Islamic world.

No less than nine countries are currently embroiled in proceedings to try to
extradite suspected Islamist terrorists from Britain, according to French
officials. France itself has spent five years - so far without success -
attempting to repatriate Rachid Ramda, currently in Brixton prison, who is
accused of masterminding the Algerian Islamist terrorist attacks on the Paris
metro in 1995.

When the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, visited Cairo last week, similar
complaints were made by Egyptian officials and the Egyptian press about Egyptian
Islamist figures operating in London.

The trail of those involved in the New York and Washington atrocities has also
been picked up in several other European countries, including Germany, Belgium
and France itself. But the extreme irritation of French officials and the French
press has been generated by the contrast between the British Government's
self-appointed status as number one ally in America's "war against terrorism"
and what is seen as previous British laxity and complacency.

The French newspaper, Le Journal du Dimanche, said yesterday: "Tony Blair, who
is openly calling for a war-like response, is finding himself increasingly
accused (by his allies) of hypocrisy.

The newspaper contrasted the previous hesitancy of British political, police and
judicial authorities with the instant expulsion to France last week of a
French-Algerian, Kamel Daoudi, suspected of involvement in a separate terrorist
plot to attack American targets in France.

Mr Daoudi, 27 - a brilliant student from a middle-class family in Paris, who is
accused of receiving training in Osama bin Laden's camps in Afghanistan - was
arrested in Leicester last Thursday.

British officials say that it was possible to expel him instantly because he had
travelled to Britain on false papers. French sources retort that his choice of
Britain was not accidental: he had assumed that he would benefit from the same
relative immunity there as dozens of other suspected Algerian Islamist
militants.

It also emerged last week that a French-Algerian suspect in the US attacks -
Zacarias Moussaoui, who was arrested in Boston on a French tip-off before the
New York and Washington atrocities - had also spent several years in London. In
his case, he had already left Britain before his suspected involvement in
Islamist terror networks became known to the French authorities.

Some French newspapers, quoting French intelligence sources, have accused
Britain of deliberately condoning Islamist activity in London as a protection
against terrorist attacks in Britain. They also suggest that British
intelligence services have sometimes used extremist Islamic groups, including
backing assassination attempts by Libyan Islamist opponents of Colonel Gaddafi.

These allegations are denied by the Government. British officials say that
action is always taken against alleged terrorists if a clear complaint is made
by a foreign government. But the suspects cannot be denied their right to appeal
against extradition through the British courts.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              413 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

EMERGENCY LAWS AIMED AT TERRORIST SUSPECTS

BYLINE: Gavin Gordon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 351 words


DRACONIAN emergency laws were being drafted today to speed up extradition cases,
tighten asylum regulations and allow terrorist suspects who flee to Britain to
be detained indefinitely.

Prime Minister Tony Blair has promised to push through the new powers to ensure
Britain does not become a "safe haven" for international terrorists in the wake
of the US terror attacks.

Chancellor Gordon Brown was today announcing Britain had frozen pounds 61m of
financial assets suspected of belonging to Afghanistan's Taliban rulers.

The assets were frozen in the London branch of a European bank on Wednesday.

Mr Blair yesterday said action would be taken to prevent billions of pounds a
year of illegal funds being "laundered" through bureaux de change.

The Prime Minister also said he had received "powerful, incontrovertible
evidence" from the intelligence agencies linking the Saudi-born millionaire
Osama bin Laden to the attacks in New York and Washington.

New legislation would be laid before Parliament within four to six weeks and Mr
Blair urged MPs from all parties to support the Government's proposals.

"I hope in this new situation people realise we have got to act. I think our
first duty has got to be to protect our citizens, " he said.

"We cannot have a situation in which it takes years to extradite people. We
cannot have a situation in which people come in and abuse our asylum procedures
and are then allowed to remain in this country claiming asylum. And we cannot
have a situation where if we know someone is a suspected terrorist we do not
have the legal power to detain them indefinitely until we find a country to
deport them to."

Britons back US THREE-QUARTERS of Britons believe the country is right to stand
"shoulder to shoulder" with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks,
according to an ICM poll for the BBC.

But the survey, conducted for the Panorama programme, Britain on the Brink, also
showed that more than half (56 per cent) believed military action should cease
once chief suspect Osama bin Laden was killed or captured.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY FOR WAR Afghan opposition Alliance fighters stand guard on the
control tower of the Alliance-controlled Baghram air base, 36 miles north of the
capital Kabul.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              414 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                                October 1, 2001

NEWS: 999

SECTION: NEWS: 999, Pg.4

LENGTH: 426 words


British back Blair's stance

THREE-QUARTERS of Britons believe the country is right to stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks, according to
an ICM poll for the BBC. But the survey, conducted for tonight's Panorama -
Britain on the Brink, also shows that more than half (56 per cent) believe
military action should cease once chief suspect Osama bin Laden is killed or
captured. The findings demonstrate overwhelming, but qualified, support for Tony
Blair's stance following the outrages in America. And they also reveal that most
people do not perceive the threat to themselves and their family to be any
greater since the attacks.

Bin Laden family flee

TWO dozen members of Osama bin Laden's family were urgently evacuated from the
US in the first days following the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington,
according to the Saudi ambassador to Washington. One of bin Laden's brothers
frantically called the Saudi Arabian Embassy in Washington looking for
protection, Prince Bandar bin Sultan told The New York Times. The brother was
sent to a room in the Watergate Hotel and was told not to open the door. Most of
bin Laden's relatives were attending high school and college. The young members
of the bin Laden family were driven or flown under FBI supervision to a secret
place in Texas and then to Washington, The Times reported yesterday.

Fear of drugs wave

MASSIVE stockpiles of raw opium grown in Afghanistan are being moved out of the
region in anticipation of military strikes, according to Downing Street. An
estimated 3,000 tonnes of the drug - enough to produce 300 tonnes of pure heroin
with a street value of GBP 20 billion - is thought to be held by the region's
drug lords. A Downing Street spokesman said that there had been evidence in
recent weeks of a "sudden movement" of opium out of neighbouring Pakistan where
it was being stockpiled. The disclosure will prompt fears that the West is about
to be flooded with a glut of cheap heroin by Afghanistan's Taliban rulers.

Firms pay terrorists

A VARIETY of companies pay terrorists to be left alone, it was reported
yesterday. They include oil operations in South America, Angola and Nigeria,
timber exploiters in South East Asia and some airlines in the Middle East,
according to the latest edition of respected US magazine Forbes Global. Until
recently even a Jewish-owned bank was paying Hezbollah, the Lebanese-based
group, it adds. The claim is made by a former intelligence officer based in
Europe, the magazine says.

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              415 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

RING OF STEEL PROTECTS CENTRE FROM ATTACK

BYLINE: Nick Speed Political Editor In Brighton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 326 words


UNPRECEDENTED security levels were put to the test last night as Labour
delegates arrived in Brighton for a conference that will be dominated by the
international terrorism crisis.

Thousands of anti-globalisation demonstrators and peace protesters tormented
police charged with maintaining a ring of steel around the conference centre.

In the wake of the terror attacks on the United States, motorway-style
galvanised steel barriers have been erected to thwart any attempts to drive
hijacked vehicles into the centre or nearby hotels.

RAF planes are on standby to protect the airspace above the UK's newest city as
it plays host to 3,000 Labour delegates.

Inside the conference centre, the fall-out from the US atrocities promises to
dominate the debate.

A statement on the economy, agreed by the party's ruling National Executive
Committee, that is to be debated today notes the terrorist attacks will have
repercussions on economies around the world.

And a debate on Britain's place in the world on Tuesday morning will now focus
on another NEC statement on international terrorism.

As the conference opened yesterday afternoon with a two-minute silence to
commemorate those who died on September 11, party chairman Charles Clarke said
there would be a "sombre tone" to this week's proceedings - already curtailed so
that MPs can reconvene in the Commons on Thursday.

Instead of the victory party that had been planned to mark Labour's landmark win
at the polls, Mr Clarke declared a celebratory tone would not be appropriate.

Accordingly Prime Minister Tony Blair, who will address the conference tomorrow,
will not complete his usual round of regional reception visits. Welsh night,
usually one of the biggest parties of the week, has had to be cancelled.

Arriving in Brighton, First Minister Rhodri Morgan said, "The hype and hoopla
has gone but we are trying to return to as much normal business as we can."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONFERENCE ZONE: A strong police presence is evident on the streets of
Brighton as the Labour Party annual conference gets under way. Security has been
stepped up following the terrorist attacks on the World Trade; Centre and
Pentagon last month

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              416 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

THREE-QUARTERS STAND WITH US

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 110 words


THREE-quarters of Britons believe the country is right to stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with the US following the September 11 terrorist attacks, according to
an ICM poll for the BBC.

But the survey, conducted for last night's Panorama - Britain on the Brink, also
shows that more than half (56pc) believe military action should cease once chief
suspect Osama bin Ladan is killed or captured.The findings demonstrate
overwhelming, but qualified, support for Tony Blair's stance following the
outrages in America.

And they also reveal that most people do not perceive the threat to themselves
and their family to be any greater since the attacks.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              417 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                            October 1, 2001, Monday

NEW YORK GOSPEL CHOIR TO PERFORM IN BRECON;
 CONCERT

BYLINE: Karen Price

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 111 words


THE New York Harlem Gospel Choir will visit Wales for a concert next week.

The choir had booked their appearance at Theatr Brycheiniog in Brecon before the
terrorist attacks on the city on September 11.

It will be their only performance in Wales and is expected to be a rather
poignant and emotional concert following the atrocities which took place in
America.

The choir is globally regarded as one of the finest exponents of gospel music
and has performed with U2 as well as for the Pope and Nelson Mandela.

The choir arrives in Britain on Thursday for their 12-date UK tour, and they
will be at Theatr Brycheiniog on October 12 at 7.45pm.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              418 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                                October 1, 2001

Labour 'backs PM's stance'

SECTION: News, Pg.2

LENGTH: 176 words


TONY Blair will get "unanimous support" from the Labour Party conference for his
fight against global terrorism, deputy Prime Minister John Prescott predicted
yesterday.

Mr Prescott admitted there was concern in the Labour Party and Britain over the
extent of the American response to the terror attacks.

But as delegates gathered for the party's annual conference in Brighton, he said
Mr Blair's care in consulting colleagues and keeping Parliament and the country
properly informed as events developed should reassure those with doubts.

"Our conference is where we define what the Labour Party view is and I am sure
it will be unanimous in supporting this Prime Minister in his fight against
global terrorism, " he said.

Standing "shoulder-toshoulder" with the U.S. did not mean British support for
whatever President George Bush decided to do.

"There has been no immediate military strike by the Americans that we could have
expected a few years ago, to be frank, and that means there is a lot of talking
going on, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              419 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 30, 2001

SAFETY FEARS AS AIR-TRAFFIC CONTROL FACES CUTS

BYLINE: Ross Hawkins;

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 520 words


The group of airlines running Britain's air-traffic control network wants to
reduce costs by GBP 60m over the next 18 months, management have told staff.

The carriers, which include British Airways, Virgin Atlantic, BMI British
Midland and Easyjet, want to find GBP 10m of savings before next March and GBP
50m in the following 12 months. The figures were put before staff at a series of
presentations by senior managers.

Controllers are becoming increasingly anxious that the cutbacks will threaten
safety standards.

The airline consortium took a 46% stake in National Air Traffic Services (Nats)
in July in a controversial privatisation. It fought off rival bids led by US
aerospace company Lockheed Martin and by outsourcing specialist Serco.

The cost cuts were planned before the terrorist attacks on America. Last week,
Nats announced it would make 226 support and management staff redundant. Further
cuts are widely expected.

The anticipated reduction in air travel will hit Nats income. It has already
affected the revenue of the airlines that are now backing the system. Last week,
BA announced the crisis had cost it GBP 40m so far.

Britain's air-traffic control system was widely acknowledged as being
overstretched even before the attacks and faces further pressure next year as
staff are trained to use a new control centre in Swanwick, Hampshire.

The skies over the south-east of England are among the busiest in the world. At
the peak of the summer holiday season, controllers warned that they were dealing
with more traffic than they could safely handle.

A spokesman for the Institution of Professionals, Managers & Specialists, the
union which represents air-traffic controllers, said: "It is very important that
none of the safety issues are cut back in any way whatsoever."

The GBP 700m Swanwick control centre is not expected to offer an immediate boost
to air capacity. It will begin service in January, but its capability will be
restricted as staff learn how to use the new facilities.

Last month, a GBP 100m contract to install new systems at an air-traffic control
centre in Prestwick, Scotland, was cancelled. It is still not clear who will
take on the work, although a number of technology contractors are believed to
have submitted bids.

The operation has pledged it will not cut the number of air-traffic controllers,
but many engineers are expected to lose their jobs.

There will also be a move away from the bespoke control system being installed
at Swanwick to "off the shelf" technology. The costs of further upgrades will be
closely monitored following massive overruns in recent projects.

A spokesman for Nats said it would not make any cuts that would jeopardise
safety.

While Nats cuts costs it is likely to face further pressure to provide further
spending. Expensive satellite-based systems, one of which is being developed by
Boeing, can monitor both the position and the exact direction in which an
aircraft is travelling.

The technology would let controllers discover more quickly if an aircraft had
deviated from its planned course.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              420 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                Sunday Business

                               September 30, 2001

SCHROEDER'S COALITION UNDER THREAT

BYLINE: Eric Culp in Frankfurt;

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 845 words


T

HE impact of the terrorist attacks in the US is being felt across the world, but
in Berlin the reverberations have highlighted the tensions in chancellor Gerhard
Schroeder's ruling coalition of Social Democrats and Greens.

Schroeder is due to take a break from his domestic pressures when he addresses
the Labour party conference in Britain this week, but at home his problems are
mounting.  According to a number of observers, the current infighting among the
Greens could tear the party apart and unravel Schroeder's coalition.

Other pundits claim that the alliance of the Social Democratic party (SPD) and
the Greens will survive the rest of this legislative period, but the eco-party
will be out of power after next year's federal election. Analysts believe a
Green exodus from the coalition would not only increase Berlin's ability to
govern but the addition of a more conservative party to the government would
also foster economic reform.

SPD frustration over Green waffling about support for a US military operation
came to a head on Friday when Peter Struck, parliamentary leader of the Social
Democrats in the lower house, told German radio: "The Greens are facing the
choice of either backing this decision, for which I plead, or going against this
decision, which would be the end of the coalition." But later, at a hastily
called press conference, Struck tried to ease the wording of his ultimatum:
"Every member of the Green party must know that the government needs support. I
said no more."

The schism between the realist Greens (dubbed the "Realos") and the
fundamentalist members of the party (the "Fundis") has once again resurfaced due
to prospects of a western attack on terrorists and their supporters in the
Middle East. The hardline pacifist members of the party have spoken out against
military action, just as they did prior to Berlin's decision to deploy troops in
Kosovo and Macedonia. The Greens last week supported the SPD by approving an
extension of the Macedonia mission, where Germany is now in charge.

German foreign minister and vice-chancellor Joschka Fischer, who heads the Realo
faction, has been able to coax the Fundis into deploying troops for peacekeeping
missions in the past, but his persuasive skills may be useless now. Greens in
four states, including North-Rhine Westphalia and Rhineland Palatinate, have
voted against military action, and the party's parliamentary group in Berlin
said it would support commando operations, but not large-scale bombing. This
could put Nato in a bind; the alliance may have to do without German Tornado
aircraft, which are highly effective against radar installations.

A Green split over the war on terrorism is likely to be mooted by the US plan of
attack. Washington has already indicated that many Nato partners will be able to
sit out the initial campaign, which would leave Germany off the hook. Even if
President George Bush requests Berlin's help, troops could be committed without
Green support: deployment has backing from the opposition, which would allow the
Greens to save face among their supporters and Germany to send troops like its
elite KSK commandos and Luftwaffe aircraft.

"I think the Social Democrats are very angry at the Greens," says Josef Schmid,
a political scientist at the University of Tuebingen. He cites rigidity within
the Green party on ecological issues and defence that has forced the SPD into
compromises which it would have been better off without. In addition to the
anti-war sentiments of the junior coalition partner, the SPD has also come under
fire from utilities for its willingness to eliminate nuclear power. The addition
of so-called eco-taxes to fossil fuels in the country has caused an uproar among
Germany's motorists.

It is clear to most analysts that the Greens are failing both at working
together with the SPD, and at the ballot box. The Greens have been hammered in
recent state elections, and last week's staggering loss in the city-state of
Hamburg only proves that the party is past its apogee. Ronald Schill, nicknamed
"Judge Merciless", ran on an anti-crime platform in the north German city where
at least three hijackers in the US attacks once lived. Schill's party garnered
nearly 20% of the vote in his first time on the ballot. The Greens' share of the
vote fell from 13.9% to about 9%, and the shift in power could bring to an end
the SPD's 44-year rule of Hamburg.

When it comes to crime and domestic security, "the Greens do not have a
solution," according to Schmid. And that could be their undoing. The party's
focus on ecology has left it lacking policies and experience in most other
areas, including economics.

The coalition is wobbly at the moment, but analysts say it will probably last
until the federal election in 12 months.

"I think the SPD is already considering changing its coalition partner after the
election," says Schmid. He predicts the Free Democrats will replace the Greens
in Schroeder's government, which will pave the way for more liberal economic
reforms.


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Sunday Business Group

                              421 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Lancashire

                               September 30, 2001

Where was Mr Blair?.

BYLINE: Nikki Masters

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 469 words

DATELINE: Blackburn



A STUDENT picked to represent Britain at an international conference today
blasted the British Government for not sending a senior minister along as well.

Amar Abass, aged 18, from Blackburn, attended the International Conference
Against Racism and Xenophobia and Related Tolerance in Durban, South Africa,
along with 16-year-old Hamid Shafaq.

The event attracted around 5,000 youth delegates around the world. Suggestions
made at the conference could be brought up at a similar meeting for governments
around the globe. Amar stayed on to watch the senior conference, in which
countries were supposed to recognise problems regarding racism and xenophobia
which they can tackle.

The conference,

America's apparent close relationship with Israel is believed to have been why
some Arabs were seen celebrating after the USA terror attacks took place.

Britain sent Baroness Valerie Amos, one of the Foreign Office's ministers. Her
responsibility is for sub-Saharan Africa, Over Seas Territories and Foreign and
Commonwealth Office Personnel. Ultimately, no agreement was reached but
principles were laid down to improve human rights, racial and xenophobia issues
across the globe.

And members of the youth conference have returned to their home towns and cities
with the brief of trying to promote issues surrounding xenophobia and race.

Amar said: "Countries like Cuba were represented by Fidel Castro while Yasser
Arafat also attended. I was annoyed that countries like Britain and America only
sent very junior people from their government. While Britain's representative,
Valerie Amos, was very nice and took our thoughts on board I do think it was an
insult.

"This conference took 18 years to arrange and was so very sensitive. Has
countries participated properly instead of walking out, so many things could
have been improved for persecuted people.

"Tony Blair should have attended, or at least Jack Straw as Foreign Secretary.

"As he is my local MP, I hope to meet him to explain just how important this
conference was. It seems to have been tucked under the carpet by Britain."

Amar, a UK Youth Parliament Ambassador and Blackburn College student governor,
and Hamid, a member of Bangor Street Community Youth Club, each received GBP
1,000 from Blackburn with Darwen Council to help fund the trip last month.

The conference was sponsored by Minorities of Europe, a campaigning group for
people from minority communities.

Amar said: "We would like to thank the council for helping us attend this very
useful conference. Having two of us there sent out a positive signal not only to
the citizens of Blackburn with Darwen but to the world as a whole."

A Foreign and Commonwealth Office spokesman said they sent the people most
appropriate for the nature of the conference.

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              422 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

SAS GOES BEHIND AFGHAN LINES

SECTION: Pg. 1

LENGTH: 170 words


BRITISH and American special forces have gone into Afghanistan on secret
scouting missions.

A senior official in Washington confirmed that the troops had carried out
reconnaissance missions in preparation for possible full-scale military strikes
against the country's Taliban rulers.

The Ministry of Defence, however, refused to comment on the involvement of
British forces operating inside Afghanistan.

'We do not comment on our special forces in any shape or form,' a spokesman
said.

Earlier reports that special forces were there to hunt down Osama bin Laden -
the man America and Britain blame for the September 11 US terror attacks - were
denied in the US.

A 44-year-old student, Abu Imard, arrested in Birmingham under the Prevention of
Terrorism Act was released from custody without charge last night after a week
of questioning.

Diplomats were today working to free Sunday Express chief reporter Yvonne
Ridley, 43, who was reported to have been arrested near Jalalabad yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              423 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               September 29, 2001

Britain on terror alert

BYLINE: Michael Clarke

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 411 words


FEARS of Islamic terrorist attacks in Britain grew yesterday after a succession
of senior ministers and police officers warned that outrages by Osama Bin Laden
supporters were likely.

Foreign Office Minister Peter Hain triggered alarm bells when he told the BBC
that Bin Laden 'is preparing for high-impact terrorist attacks in the coming
weeks, if he's able to'.

He added: ' We've got to track him down. We've got to stop him.' Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw fuelled concern, saying: 'We have to work on the basis that
this organisation is still there around the world and that there continues to be
a risk of them making further attacks. None of us wish to raise anxiety in the
minds of the public, but we would be complacent and irresponsible not to warn of
the risks.' Home Secretary David Blunkett, apparently referring to heightened
security at key targets in Britain, said: 'We're not going through what we're
going through now for the sake of our health.' He said there was not necessarily
an imminent threat in Britain.

He added: ' But we are putting in place the necessary security at every point,
whether that's for particular facilities or whether it's securing ourselves from
internal or external attack.

'We're doing that because we believe that global threat remains, but being
alert, being active, being prepared for such a threat doesn't mean it's about to
happen.' Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of the specialist operations
division at Scotland Yard, said there was a 'significant level of threat' from
international terrorism and warned there could be further terrorist
'spectaculars'.

The level of the threat would be 'imprecise' until the conclusion-of detailed
work by the FBI. He said: 'What we feel is that there could be follow-up attacks
although we have no specific information of specific attacks aimed at the UK.'
He warned the attacks in the U.S. could be copied by smaller groups, or
individuals, with no connection to Islamic fundamentalism.

Amid rising concern, Downing Street insisted there was 'no specific threat' to
Britain, although a spokesman added: 'We have evidence of an ongoing threat
internationally.' But behind the scenes, senior security sources said there
could be 'tens' of terrorists loose in Britain, including several suicide
bombers.

A document seized from an Algerian gang arrested in Spain showed links to London
and, in Arabic, the words: 'Dynamite. God willing.'


LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              424 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Evening Herald (Plymouth)

                               September 29, 2001

SAS mission to pinpoint terror camps

SECTION: AGENCY: AGENCY, Pg.5

LENGTH: 787 words


BRITISH and American special forces have mounted covert scouting missions inside
Afghanistan, US sources have confirmed.

A senior official in Washington said that the troops had carried out
reconnaissance missions in preparation for possible full-scale military strikes
against the country's Taliban rulers.

The disclosure came as the United Nations Security Council approved a resolution
on measures to combat global terrorism.

The resolution, put forward by the US, obliges member states to outlaw the
funding of terrorist groups, freeze their assets and prevent movement of those
suspected to be linked to terror groups.

Every nation must also deny them 'safe haven' and speed up the exchange of
intelligence.

The Ministry of Defence refused to comment on the involvement of British forces
operating inside Afghanistan.

Earlier reports that special forces were there to hunt down Osama bin Laden -
the man America and Britain blame for the September 11 US terror attacks - were
denied in the US.

In Washington, President George Bush said America was in "hot pursuit" of the
terrorist networks which carried out the US attacks, while acknowledging the
difficulty of using conventional forces in such operations.

"It is very hard to fight a guerrilla war with conventional forces and we
understand that," he said.

"It will require the best of intelligence and sharing of intelligence. There may
or may not be a conventional component to it.

"Make no mistake about it - we're in hot pursuit."

The troops deployed are likely to include Britain's SAS, while America's elite
Delta Force was also believed to be part of the operation.

The prospect of US-led military strikes loomed closer today after a high-level
Pakistani delegation to Afghanistan returned empty-handed.

The Pakistani team, including senior clerics and led by the intelligence chief
General Mahmood Ahmed, had been hoping to persuade the Taliban regime to avert a
conflict by handing over bin Laden to America.

One of the Pakistani clerics, Mufti Mohammed Jamil, said that the Taliban leader
Mullah Mohammed Omar had told them: "America should give up its stubbornness,
and only then can Afghanistan negotiate."

The Afghan ambassador, Abdul Salam Zaeef, who accompanied the Pakistani
delegation, said bin Laden had not even been discussed during their talks.

"We didn't go there to discuss Osama bin Laden, but to discuss the crisis, and
talked about the stability of Afghanistan and Pakistan," he said.

On Thursday, the Taliban said it had passed on a religious edict to bin Laden
asking him to leave the country voluntarily - disclosing for the first time that
its leader knew where he was hiding.

The announcement cut little ice in Washington, where President Bush has demanded
that the Taliban hand over bin Laden and close down his network of terrorist
camps.

"There is no negotiation with the Taliban. They heard what I said," Mr Bush told
reporters.

Meanwhile, the FBI has unveiled the first piece of evidence it has to link the
hijackers who launched four suicide attacks on America on September 11 to each
other.

The evidence came in a five-page series of instructions to the hijackers which
told them to bring "knives, your will, IDs, your passport" and added: "You will
be entering the happiest life, everlasting life."

The letter was found in the baggage of suspected ringleader Mohamed Atta, in a
car rented by another hijacker, Hawaf Alhazmi, and at the site in Pennsylvania
where one of the hijacked planes crashed.

American Attorney General John Ashcroft last night said the documents left
behind by the terrorists were "a shocking and disturbing view into the mindsets"
of the hijackers.

He released the document, which was handwritten in Arabic, and said it was "a
stark reminder of how these hijackers grossly perverted the Islamic faith to
justify their terroristic acts".

Atta was on the first of the two flights that smashed into the World Trade
Center, while Alhazmi helped hijack the plane that flew into the Pentagon. It is
not known who had been in possession of the text found in Pennsylvania.

The document was published by the Washington Post. The paper detailed how it
gave a step-by-step guide to the terrorists' actions in the run-up to the
hijacking.

"Everybody hates death, fears death," it said. "But only those, the believers
who know the life after death and the reward after death, would be the ones who
will be seeking death."

As they set foot on the plane, the hijackers were to pray and remember: "It is a
raid for Allah."

It added: "When the time of truth comes and zero hour arrives, then straighten
out your clothes, open your chest and welcome death for the sake of Allah."

LOAD-DATE: October 5, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                         Copyright 2001 Evening Herald

                              425 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 29, 2001

Blunkett plays down specific threat;No. 10 moves to end the speculation that
Britain is a prime target

BYLINE: Michael Settle Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 585 words


DAVID Blunkett yesterday sought to kill off growing speculation that Britain was
an imminent target for Osama bin Laden's terrorist network after ministerial
colleagues appeared to suggest that it could be.

The home secretary, responding to remarks by, first, Peter Hain, the Europe
minister, and, then, Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, stressed that while
there was a continued global threat of terrorist activity it was "imminently not
in Britain".

Mr Hain had warned on the BBC that there was evidence bin Laden was "preparing
for high-impact terrorist attacks in the coming weeks, if he's able to".

Yesterday morning, Mr Straw, asked if bin Laden was planning further attacks
which might affect Britain, replied: "Yes . . . We have to work on the basis
that this organisation is still there around the world . . . and that there
continues to be a risk of them making further attacks."

The foreign secretary added: "We don't know exactly where. On the one hand, none
of us wishes to raise anxiety in the minds of the public, but we would be
complacent and irresponsible not to warn of the risks."

At first, Downing Street sought to downplay Mr Hain's and Mr Straw's remarks,
stressing there was no specific evidence of a planned strike against the UK and
no reason to believe there were any "significant" British connections to the US
atrocities.

Later, Mr Blunkett denied that Mr Straw and Mr Hain had talked up the nature of
the threat to the UK.

He told the BBC: "I don't think either of them talked it up. I think we're
talking the truth and consistency has been there ever since September 11.

"Firstly, that there continues to be a global threat. We're not going through
what we're going through now for the sake of our health.

"There is a threat - imminently not in Britain. We know what the situation is in
terms of having secured as well as we can with the confidence but without
complacency that comes from having had experience of terrorist threats over the
last 30 years.

"But we are putting in place the necessary security at every point, whether
that's for particular facilities or whether it's securing ourselves from
internal or external attack. We're doing that because we believe that global
threat remains, but we do not wish to frighten people because they must go about
their normal lives, doing their normal business, ensuring that our economy and
our social lives are not undermined."

The home secretary argued that being alert and being prepared for such a threat
did not mean it was about to happen.

Mr Blunkett explained there were "complex issues" which needed to be addressed
in terms of legislation against terrorists.

"Some of that legislative change will deal with situations where we pick people
up and we have enormous lengthy difficulty in actually removing them from the
country. There will be others where, I'm afraid even with the best legislation
and will in the world, you can't apprehend everyone who passes through an
international airport on the way to somewhere else."

Downing Street, meanwhile, did not rule out amending laws in order to make e
-mail security more effective.

It is thought some ministers are worried that terrorists could use the internet
in organising their campaigns and so want encryption tightened up by law.

A spokesman for Number 10, asked about new legal measures for e-mail security,
said: "We will look at all aspects in relation to how we can tackle this problem
of terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ALERT AND PREPARED: David Blunkett, while admitting there was a
continued global threat, said it was "imminently not in Britain".

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              426 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERRORISM: SAFETY - NO 10 PLAYS DOWN ATTACK FEAR

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 246 words


DOWNING STREET insisted yesterday there was no evidence that terrorists were
planning attacks in Britain and distanced itself from warnings by the Foreign
Office.

Tony Blair's official spokesman appeared to contradict warnings by Foreign
Office ministers that Osama bin Laden, the prime suspect for the attacks in the
US, was preparing further terrorist acts.

Mr Blair's aides feared that comments by the Foreign Secretary, Jack Straw, and
the Europe minister, Peter Hain, could undermine Mr Blair's call for people to
carry on with their normal lives and prevent the threat of terrorism harming the
economy.

Mr Hain said: "We are in a very dangerous situation... I understand that he is
preparing already for high-impact terrorist attacks in the coming weeks, if he's
able to... we would be irresponsible not to warn of the risks."

However, Mr Blair's spokesman insisted: "We have no evidence of a specific
threat to this country. That is not lightly said. We have evidence of a threat
internationally."

David Blunkett, the Home Secretary, denied that Mr Straw and Mr Hain had "talked
up" the threat in Britain, but insisted such a threat was not imminent. He said:
"We are putting in place the necessary security at every point... We believe
that a global threat remains but we do not wish to frighten people because they
must go about their normal lives, doing their normal business, ensuring that our
economy and social life are not undermined."

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              427 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

WAR ON TERROR: QUOTES OF INSPIRATION

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 310 words


WINSTON Churchill has been much quoted by President Bush and New York mayor
Rudolph Giuliani since the American terror attacks on September 11. Churchill's
oratory came into its own during the Second World War. And his words are as
valid now as they were then.I have nothing to offer but blood, toil, tears and
sweat... to wage war against monstrous tyranny, never surpassed in the dark,
lamentable catalogue of human crime.

On becoming prime minister, House of Commons,

May 13, 1940

We shall fight on the seas and oceans, we shall fight with growing confidence
and growing strength in the air, we shall defend our island, whatever the cost
may be. We shall fight on the beaches, we shall fight on the landing grounds, we
shall fight in the fields and in the streets, we shall fight in the hills; we
shall never surrender.

House of Commons, June 4, 1940

Let us therefore brace ourselves to our duty, and so bear ourselves that, if the
British Empire and its Commonwealth lasts for a thousand years, men will still
say 'This was their finest hour'.

House of Commons, June 18, 1940

Never in the field of human conflict was so much owed by so many to so few.

On the courage of the Battle of Britain pilots, August 20, 1940

Give us the tools and we will finish the job.

Radio broadcast addressed to President Roosevelt, Feb 9, 1941

When I warned them (the French Government) that Britain would fight on alone
whatever they did, their generals told their prime minister and his divided
cabinet 'In three weeks England will have her neck wrung like a chicken'. Some
chicken! Some neck!

Speech to Canadian parliament, December 30, 1941

Now this is not the end. It is not even the beginning of the end. But it is,
perhaps, the end of the beginning.

On the success of the North African campaign, November 10, 1942

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              428 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 29, 2001

UNIONS OPPOSE REVENGE ATTACK;
 Motions warn Blair against 'ever-widening war'

BYLINE: by DAN O'NEILL

SECTION:  Pg. 1

LENGTH: 547 words


UNIONS united yesterday to call on the Labour government to refrain from
"revenge" attacks in response to the terrorist attacks on the US.

Rail unions ASLEF and RMT, together with the Fire Brigades Union, told the
government that it must strive for a peaceful solution to the international
crisis.

Emergency motions to the Labour Party conference from ASLEF and the FBU will
call on the government to avoid any military action that would put the lives of
innocent civilians at risk.

But Prime Minister Tony Blair upped the ante in the showdown with Afghanistan,
urging the Taliban regime to hand over terrorist suspect Osama bin Laden - or
else.

The ASLEF motion to the Labour conference, which opens in Brighton tomorrow,
issued a stark warning against Britain embarking on "an everwidening war."

The motion states that such a war would "sow the seeds of a prolonged conflict
between the US and Britain on the one hand and millions of people around the
world, in the Middle East above all, on the other."

ASLEF general secretary Mick Rix said that it was vital for the conference to
debate the implications of the international crisis.

FBU general secretary Andy Gilchrist added: "We mourn those who died in the
tragedy and the 365 firefighters who were killed in the line of duty.

"But, like ASLEF, we would not like to see any more innocent civilian lives lost
by this attack, so we appeal to the government to endeavour toward a peaceful
resolution to the crisis."

The RMT executive called on the British labour movement to oppose any "war of
revenge."

The union stated: "Our trade union, in the historic tradition of the labour
movement, internationalism and of the cause of socialism, totally rejects
terrorism or any forms of aggression, racism and militarism."

Along with ASLEF, RMT called for action against terrorism to be co-ordinated
under the auspices the United Nations.

RMT acting general secretary Vernon Hince said: "Like all right-minded citizens,
we deplore the savage terrorist attack that killed and injured a shocking number
of trade unionists and ordinary workers.

"But we are concerned that this tragedy could lead to a war of revenge.

"We would oppose such action and would seek to preserve the innocent civilian
lives that could be endanged by it, " Mr Hince stressed.

Bakers' union BFAWU general secretary Joe Marino supported his colleagues' calls
for caution.

"There is a need to ensure that whoever perpetrated this outrage is found out.
It is against them retaliation should be aimed, " he said.

"As tempting as it may be, instant revenge against people who may be as innocent
as the victims of September 11 must be resisted, " Mr Marino argued.

The Campaign for Nuclear Disarmament welcomed the unions' commitment to a
peaceful resolution of the world crisis.

CND will hold a national demonstration in London on October 13, assembling in
Hyde Park at 12 noon and marching to Trafalgar Square at 1pm.

Peace activists will march in Liverpool today, demanding "No to war, No to
invasion of Afghanistan."

The demonstration, which has been organised by Liverpool Trades Council,
assembles at 11am on Myrtle Parade, from where marchers will go to St Georges
Plateau for a rally.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

GRAPHIC: GOING UNDERGROUND: Officers from Sussex Police underwater search team
preparing a security trawl of the sewers beneath the Brighton Centre, where the
Labour Party conference will gather tomorrow.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              429 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

FORCES HAVE MOVED IN;
 SPECIAL TEAMS IN AFGHANISTAN NOW - SAYS PENTAGON

BYLINE: Helen Wiliams

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 443 words


BRITISH and American special forces have mounted covert scouting missions inside
Afghanistan, US sources have said.

A senior official in Washington confirmed that the troops had carried out
reconnaissance missions in preparation for possible full-scale military strikes
against the country's Taliban rulers.

The disclosure came as the United Nations Security Council approved a resolution
on measures to combat global terrorism.

The resolution, put forward by the US, obliges member states to outlaw the
funding of terrorist groups, freeze their assets and prevent movement of those
suspected to be linked to terror groups.

Every nation must also deny them "safe haven" and speed up the exchange of
intelligence.

The Ministry of Defence refused to comment on the involvement of British forces
operating inside Afghanistan.

"We do not comment on our special forces in any shape or form, " a spokesman
said.

Earlier reports that special forces were there to hunt down Osama bin Laden -
the man America and Britain blame for the September 11 US terror attacks - were
denied in the US.

In Washington, President George W Bush said America was in "hot pursuit" of the
terrorist networks which carried out the US attacks, while acknowledging the
difficulty of using conventional forces in such operations.

"It is very hard to fight a guerrilla war with conventional forces and we
understand that, " he said.

"It will require the best of intelligence and sharing of intelligence. There may
or may not be a conventional component to it.

"Make no mistake about it - we're in hot pursuit."

The troops deployed are likely to include Britain's SAS, while America's elite
Delta Force was also believed to be part of the operation.

The prospect of US-led military strikes loomed closer today after a high-level
Pakistani delegation to Afghanistan returned empty-handed.

The Pakistani team, including senior clerics and led by the intelligence chief
General Mahmood Ahmed, had been hoping to persuade the Taliban regime to avert a
conflict by handing over bin Laden to America.

One of the Pakistani clerics, Mufti Mohammed Jamil, said the Taliban leader,
Mullah Mohammed Omar, had told them: "America should give up its stubbornness,
and only then can Afghanistan negotiate."

On Thursday, the Taliban said it had passed on a religious edict to bin Laden
asking him to leave the country voluntarily - disclosing for the first time that
its leader knew where he was hiding.

But that cut no ice with President Bush who told reporters yesterday: "There is
no negotiation with the Taliban. They heard what I said."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEARTBREAK SKYLINE. Work contines under floodlights last night on the
rubble that was once the World Trade Centre in New York.

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              430 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 29, 2001, Saturday

COPYCAT STRIKE LIKELY HERE, SAYS HAIN;
 TARGETS: 'INTELLIGENCE SUGGESTS BIN LADEN HAS BRITAIN IN HIS SIGHTS'

BYLINE: Toby Mason Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 523 words


FOREIGN Office minister Peter Hain last night gave the clearest warning yet that
Britain is likely to suffer a terrorist attack.

Mr Hain said intelligence indicated that extremist cells here are planning a
copycat strike after the US atrocities, and warned that it posed a very real
threat.

"These people have the capability to strike, and they are planning copycat
attacks to the atrocities in New York and Washington, " he said.

"Britain has always been a prime target for Osama bin Laden. Our intelligence
suggests that he has us in his sights.

"They have the capability to strike again, and they will do so - not in the US
but in London, or elsewhere in Europe."

Mr Hain, the MP for Neath, is the most senior member of the Western alliance to
suggest that Britain and Europe are a definite target for groups linked to Osama
bin Laden, believed to be behind the American attacks.

He said every effort was being made to gather information about the network in
Britain.

The attacks would be "high-impact" but there should not be grounds for panic
among the public, Mr Hain said.

"The police and security services are working flat out to follow leads from
America, from New York, Washington and Boston airport."

He declined to comment on whether the intelligence services believed an attack
was imminent.

Mr Hain said it was possible that other attacks could take place elsewhere in
Europe, or possibly even further afield in Moscow or Beijing.

"This threat precisely illustrated why it is so vital that we should stand
together, shoulder to shoulder, " he said.

Bin Laden yesterday denied any involvement in the US terror attacks and pointed
the finger at Jews.

He claims Florida's Jewish community has not forgiven President Bush for his
controversial and vital state victory in last November's drawn out US election,
the Karachi daily newspaper Ummat reported.

In a new attempt to break the deadlock over bin Laden, a delegation of Pakistani
religious leaders and government officials travelled to Afghanistan for talks
with the ruling Taliban.

Meanwhile, Taliban leaders have asked for a special meeting of the Organisation
of the Islamic Conferences to discuss the terrorist attacks in the US and "help
in getting the culprits".

British journalist held by Taliban

THE former deputy editor of Wales on Sunday has been arrested by the Taliban
government in Afghanistan.

Yvonne Ridley, who now works for the Daily and Sunday Express, is being held
near the eastern city of Jalalabad after being detained early yesterday.

Peter Curtis, a former colleague in Cardiff, has been in touch with her.

On September 17, six days after the attacks on the World Trade Centre, Ms Ridley
texted him to say she was about to apply for an Afghan visa.

Mr Curtis said, "On Saturday night, about 8pm I got another text saying she was
in the Khyber Pass, approaching the Afghan border and that she was hoping to
cross the following morning."

An Afghan news report said Ms Ridley was wearing Afghan attire and veil when she
was arrested but was not carrying any travel documents.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              431 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 29, 2001

JUST LIKE THE NAZIS;
 What Jack Straw says about bin Laden's evil army

BYLINE: Matthew Geroge

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 581 words


EVIL Osama bin Laden is the new Hitler, Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said
yesterday as he warned of further atrocities.

In the strongest attack yet on multi-millionaire fundamentalist bin Laden, Mr
Straw said the West could never negotiate with him.

But warnings by Mr Straw and his deputy Peter Hain of fresh terror attacks in
the next few weeks caused fear and confusion, as Downing Street is desperately
trying to play down the threat.

Tony Blair told people on Thursday to carry on as normal - to go shopping, to go
on holiday and not to fear flying - in an attempt to prevent Britain plunging
into recession.

But his 'business as usual' message was undermined when the Queen cancelled a
prestigious tour of Australia and New Zealand. And a row broke out over how much
time some of the suicide hijackers behind the September 11 attacks spent in
Britain - as a court heard details of a British man's link to the atrocities.

It has become clear military reprisals are not imminent since the U.S. does not
know where bin Laden is.

Mr Straw, who earlier this week was plunged into a row with Israel over comments
made during his visit to Egypt, was again outspoken yesterday when he discussed
bin Laden, who is still believed to be in hiding in Afghanistan.

He insisted: "You can't negotiate with these people. The best historical
parallel, I'm afraid to say, is with those at the top of the Nazi regime.

"It wasn't possible to negotiate with Hitler, although some people
understandably, but naively, thought that it was."

The Foreign Secretary said he believed bin Laden was plotting new terror
attacks. "We have to work on the basis that this organisation is still there
around the world. . . and that there continues to be a risk of them making
further attacks.

"We don't know exactly where. On the one hand none of us wish to raise anxiety
in the minds of the public, but we would be complacent and irresponsible not to
warn of the risks."

His tough talking echoed Europe Minister Peter Hain, who said: "I understand bin
Laden is preparing for high-impact terrorist attacks in the coming weeks, if
he's able to.We've got to track him down.

We've got to stop him."

But in what looked like a co-ordinated response, Mr Blair and Home Secretary
David Blunkett said there was no evidence of a specific threat of attacks in
Britain.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said he did not make the claim lightly
and said it was important to avoid scaremongering and being alarmist.

He also signalled military reprisals against bin Laden, and the Taliban regime
harbouring him, could be weeks or even months away. The preparations were being
made in a "calm and measured way" and would "continue at their own pace."

The spokesman tried to calm fears that many of the suicide hijackers had spent
time in Britain, eluding the attention of police and security services.

"Speculation about UK connections to the attacks in the U.S. are exaggerated, "
he said, effectively dismissing a Scotland Yard briefing which revealed a police
probe into the movements of 11 hijackers.

He said in most cases the terrorists had merely changed flights at Heathrow or
Gatwick on route to the U.S. from elsewhere in the world.

The Government's 'carry on as normal'message was undermined when the Queen
cancelled a tour of Australia and New Zealand due to begin on Wednesday after a
summit of Commonwealth heads of government was postponed.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              432 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 29, 2001

USnet is closing on terror suspects

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 390 words


THE United States began to close the net on terrorist suspects yesterday as it
acted to extradite from Britain an Algerian pilot alleged to have been linked to
the U.S. suicide hijackers.

And it was revealed how the U.S.

has been trying to extradite another alleged associate of suspected terrorist
leader Osama bin Laden from Britain for three years.

Yesterday Bow Street magistrates were told that the Algerian arrested by British
police was an instructor for four of the suicide hijackers who carried out the
terrorist atrocities in the United States.

The hijackers allegedly trained by Lotfi Raissi, 27, included the pilot of the
aircraft which crashed into the Pentagon.

But it could be years before Raissi faces trial in the U.S.

because of Britain's tortuous extradition procedures.

Multiple layers of checks and appeals will allow him, if he wants to, to
frustrate the U.S. authorities' desire to bring him to court there swiftly.

The U.S. has already been waiting more than three years for the extradition of
another terrorist suspect, the alleged associate of Osama bin Laden, Khalid
alFawwaz.

Raissi, who was living in Colnbrook, Berkshire, close to London's Heathrow
airport, was originally detained on September 21 by Metropolitan Police under
the Terrorism Act.

After being held for a week, he was rearrested yesterday on an international
warrant at the request of the U.S. authorities.

Prosecutor Arvinda Sambir said: "He was a lead instructor of four of the pilots
that were responsible for the hijackings. The one that we are concerned about is
the one that went into the Pentagon."

She said Raissi visited the U.S.

on a number of occasions between June and July this year. On June 23 he visited
Las Vegas with his wife and then flew to Arizona with the Pentagon pilot, she
said. "We say he was there to ensure that pilots were capable and trained for
this purpose, " she said.

Raissi started his training for a U.S. commercial pilot's licence in 1997, Ms
Sambir said. She said the warrant from the U.S. was for obtaining a pilot's
licence dishonestly because he did not declare a previous conviction for theft
and that he had had surgery on his knee.

But she said further charges were expected, adding: "It is no secret that
conspiracy to murder is being looked at."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              433 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 28, 2001

CRACKDOWN ON TERROR;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK - 20 arrests suggest Euro network

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 438 words


POLICE across Europe have arrested at least 20 people and shadowed dozens of
others, piecing together the first clues of what may be a network of terror.

Many of the suspects are believed to have links to Osama bin Laden, the
suspected mastermind of the September 11 terror attacks in the United States,
authorities said.

Some are believed to have plotted attacks on American interests in Europe -
including the U.S. Embassy in Paris. No one has tied any of the suspects in
Europe to the U.S. attacks but some were linked to one another.

Spanish officials announced on Wednesday that six Algerians had been detained.

Spanish authorities said some of the Algerians had been in contact with one of
the first terror suspects rounded up in Europe after the US attacks - Nizar
Trabelsi, a Tunisian arrested on September 13 in Belgium.

Trabelsi was said to be planning a suicide attack against U.S. targets on the
continent.

Other arrests have taken place in Britain and France.

French judicial officials say Djamel Begal, a French-Algerian man arrested in
Dubai in July, has been key to rounding-up suspects. French police said Begal
tipped them off to plots against the U.S. Embassy in Paris. The information led
to the arrests of seven people in France on September 21 and one later in
Britain.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said as many as 11 of the 19 hijackers may have
been in Britain in the months leading up to the attacks.

He said: "What we do now know is, having identified these people, we can track
not only their movements, but those who associated with them."

British police have received more than 100 requests from the FBI to trace
suspects, witnesses and other people.

British anti-terrorist police continued to question six Iraqi men and one German
man found hiding on Wednesday in a truck parked outside a Royal Air Force base
used by U.S.

fighter jets.

Today a 27-year-old man who was detained a week ago in London along with three
others was arrested on an international warrant from the United States, Scotland
Yard said. Of the three others, two have been released and the third, Abu Imard,
44, remained in custody.

The UN will need more than 584 million dollars (396 million) to save refugees if
the U.S. attacks Afghanistan, Secretary-General Kofi Annan has said.

Aid may have to be dropped from aeroplanes, Annan said, since Afghanistan's
ruling Taliban has forced out foreign aid workers. Drought and years of civil
war have already forced some five million Afghans to flee their homes, and
officials estimate the number could rise to 7.5 million.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              434 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 28, 2001

WHAT THE PAPERS SAY

SECTION: News, Pg.5

LENGTH: 86 words


TIMES: Dozens of terrorists allied to Osama bin Laden are on the run in Britain
after disappearing in the wake of the suicide bombings in America.

TELEGRAPH: Tony Blair asked people to go shopping and take holidays to prevent
the economy going into recession yesterday after the terrorist attacks.

GUARDIAN: Prince Charles is to tell the Queen that Prince Edward must choose
between his business and public duties as the furore over the filming of Prince
William at university turned into a royal row.

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              435 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

Kennedy urges pro-EU Tories to come aboard

BYLINE: By Sarah Womack Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 18

LENGTH: 630 words

CHARLES Kennedy yesterday urged pro-European Tories to abandon Iain Duncan
Smith, saying the need for a strong and united Europe was more pressing in the
aftermath of terrorist attacks on the United States.

In a controversial close-of-conference speech, the Liberal Democrat leader used
the conflict to stress the case for putting the EU at the heart of Britain's
approach to international affairs.

"The real lesson of September 11 is that isolationism just does not work," he
said. "We are in this together.

"There are people in British party politics who seem to believe somehow that we
can go it alone. I say to those people, you are wrong."

Mr Kennedy told delegates in Bournemouth they had to "engage" more now with
people who felt the Conservative Party was no longer their natural home.

"As the effective Opposition, we have to persuade those people that we are their
instinctive home. When they come to us they will be guaranteed a very warm
welcome indeed."

Aides denied he was engaging in party political point-scoring at an
inappropriate time in domestic and world politics. "He was careful about what he
said - not too overt," one said. "He wanted to make sure he struck the right
note."

But his comments contradicted remarks he made at the beginning of the week that
it was not the time, and possibly counter-productive, to encourage people to
defect.

Mr Kennedy's speech was laced with references to impending military action
against Afghanistan. He referred only once to domestic issues in the form of
public services.

He said Britain should "never, ever let the terrorists triumph" but he added
that democracy should not be abandoned as the world considered its response to
the attacks.

"We do a disservice to democracy if we simply meet terror with terror," he said.

"We do nothing to protect all that we hold dear if we abandon, in the name of
security, the very principles which terrorists seek to destroy - liberty,
democracy, diversity."

He said those who wanted to build a long-term peace would have to address the
underlying causes of the kind of hatred which inspired the murderous attacks on
New York and Washington - "ignorance, poverty and prejudice". Mindful of
Labour's plan to introduce identity cards, Mr Kennedy said: "Cracking down on
civil liberties carries a price. Liberties lost tend to be liberties hard to
regain.

"The message from our conference is this: in the weeks and months to come,
wherever civil liberties are concerned, tread with care."

Turning to public services, he stressed the need for the party not to take a
dogmatic approach against private sector involvement. The leadership suffered a
blow on the issue earlier this week, with delegates urging a moratorium on all
further private finance initiatives in the NHS until a thorough investigation
into public-private partnerships had taken place.

But party officials stressed Mr Kennedy's belief that, in many cases, the
interests of those using public services and those providing them coincided.
That did not mean that the Liberal Democrats should side with health workers and
others in the public sector where they did not, Mr Kennedy told delegates.

"Our principle is that public service professionals should have the freedom to
deliver high-quality public services not in the interests of the producers, but
in the interests of the community. Of course private initiatives have a place in
public services, just as there's a real role for the voluntary and charitable
sectors, all too often overlooked."

Mr Kennedy's words received a warm but relatively sober reception from
delegates. He stood on stage for two minutes to acknowledge the standing ovation
rather than receiving the traditional congratulations on the floor of the
conference hall.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              436 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Blunkett seeks to play down fears of attack on Britain;
The Terrorist Crisis: Politics

BYLINE: Patrick Hennessy

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 410 words


DAVID BLUNKETT today played down speculation of a possible terrorist attack on
Britain by claiming there no was no imminent threat to this country. In what
appeared to be a concerted effort, Mr Blunkett joined forces with Downing Street
to reinforce the message that people should get on with their normal lives -
although with a high state of vigilance.

The Home Secretary's intervention appeared to be an attempt to heal the division
which has opened up in Westminster over the seriousness of the threat of an
attack by associates of Osama bin Laden. The stance taken by Mr Blunkett and
Tony Blair's official spokesman contrasted with earlier warnings by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw and Europe Minister Peter Hain.

Last night on the BBC's Question Time, Mr Hain referred to intelligence reports
which warned associates of Bin Laden and his al Qaeda network were preparing
follow-up attacks to the 11 September atrocities.

Mr Hain did not specify where these attacks might take place but Mr Straw agreed
this morning on Radio 4's Today programme that Britain "might be attacked".

Mr Straw claimed it would be "irresponsible and complacent" not to warn people
of the risks. He added: "We have to work on the basis that this organisation is
still there around the world ... and that there continues to be a risk of them
making further attacks."

Mr Blunkett, however, said: "There continues to be a global threat. We're not
going through what we're going through now for the sake of our health.

There is a threat - imminently not in Britain.

"We believe that global threat remains but we do not wish to frighten people.
They must go about their normal lives, doing their normal business, ensuring
that our economy and our social life are not undermined. Being alert, being
active, being prepared for such a threat doesn't mean it's about to happen."

Downing Street's line was much closer to Mr Blunkett's than to the Foreign
Office ministers'. Mr Blair's spokesman repeated that there was "no evidence of
a specific threat against the UK" He added: "We do not make such assertions
lightly."

* Mr Blunkett today became the first British minister to openly condemn Italian
prime minister Silvio Berlusconi for claiming Western civilisation was superior
to Islam. Mr Berlusconi's comments were "offensive" and "culturally inaccurate",
and Italy's part in the international coalition had been damaged by the remarks,
he said.


LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              437 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Evening Times (Glasgow)

                               September 28, 2001

Bin Laden 'planning new horror attacks'

SECTION: Pg. 6

LENGTH: 573 words


Osama bin Laden is planning fresh terror attacks - with Britain as a possible
target, it was claimed today.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw said he believed the prime suspect in the September
11 atrocities in America was planning more action.

Calling for a military coalition to root out the terrorists, he added: "You
can't negotiate with these people. The best historical parallel I'm afraid to
say is those at the top of the Nazi regime.

''It wasn't possible to negotiate with Hitler, although some people naively
thought that it was."

His warning came as it was revealed the US government's global manhunt has
thwarted two terrorist attacks since September 11.

Evidence seized in raids in the US and Europe included plans for an attack on
the US Embassy in Paris, and an attack with explosives on a military site in
Brussels, Belgium, officials said.

And FBI agents have evidence suggesting several Middle Eastern men were in
various stages of planning for more attacks on US soil.

As the terror alert was issued, Prime Minister Tony Blair called on the
international community to form a "humanitarian coalition" to help Afghanistan.

His plea came as United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan warned that more
than (pounds) 339million was needed to save refugees if the United States
attacked Afghanistan in retaliation for the terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington.

The humanitarian crisis - which is also affecting neighbouring Pakistan - has
been made worse since UN aid workers have been forced to leave the area.

Last night, International Development Secretary Clare Short announced Pakistan
was to receive an extra (pounds) 11m from the UK.

The effects of the atrocities were also being felt in the UK as Chancellor
Gordon Brown told fellow Cabinet ministers the economy faced uncertainty.

At a specially-convened meeting last night, Mr Brown said the right policy for
the UK would be to stick to public spending plans which were still affordable -
but that the Government would remain vigilant.

While the Chancellor urged vigilance, Mr Blair and US president George Bush sent
out messages urging people to get on with their daily lives.

"Get on the airlines. Get about the business of America," Bush urged Americans
at Chicago's O'Hare airport.

As he declared "the spirit of America is incredibly strong," a Spirit Airlines
plane took off behind him and drew chants of "USA, USA, USA."

In his rallying call, Mr Blair warned: "These are immensely difficult times. We
are engaged in a fight against terrorism on all fronts."

HE added: "We will be vigilant but we must not let these events shake our
confidence in ourselves, in our country and in our way of life."

Mr Blair brought his Cabinet ministers up to date with the latest military,
political, diplomatic and humanitarian developments in the crisis caused by the
terrorist atrocities in the United States.

With time running out before action is taken to force the Taliban to hand over
bin Laden, a delegation of Pakistani religious leaders and government officials
left today for talks with the Afghan rulers, in a new attempt to break the
deadlock.

The 16-member delegation's departure came a day after the Taliban delivered a
message to bin Laden, asking him to leave the country.

It was the first indication from the Taliban that they knew where bin Laden was,
or how to communicate with him.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: FRESH THREAT: as the New York clean up goes on, Western governments
fear Osama bin Laden is planning another major strike

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              438 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 28, 2001

Notebook: Asset managers must show their mettle: Saving firms may be good
business

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 789 words


There was an inevitability about events yesterday. A well of speculation is
growing that the financial trauma caused by the American terror attacks will
leave a number of Britain's best known companies with little option but to
renegotiate their loans. Unavoidably, those negotiations will rest on
assumptions about a business outlook radically changed from a short time ago.

What this means is that in certain cases, shareholders in previously big, sound
companies - those investors who carry the largest burden of risk in the system
of equity capital - will see their investment largely wiped out. Yes, it is that
bad.

While the overall market as measured by the FTSE indices has remained relatively
stable, City players are already rushing about trying to guess which companies
might be closest to the rocks. In the process, these speculative runs on
individual stocks are exacerbating that chances of something big and bad
happening. But then that is what the equity market is supposed to do - allocate
capital as efficiently as possible, free of sentimentality.

What we can say, tentatively, is that we are nevertheless unlikely to see
wholesale corporate collapses over the coming weeks, leading to horrific job
losses. The authorities do have experience in dealing with such matters and a
framework for so-called corporate workouts - the London approach, de tailed on
page 25 - has carefully evolved over the past three decades through the offices
of first the Bank of England and now the FSA.

There are many past beneficiaries of this framework, which ranges from
parachuting executive muscle into failing firms, through to full-blown debt for
equity swaps.

Did you know, for instance, that the Bank of England put the former Pleasurama
entrepreneur Nat Solomon in as chairman of Tottenham Hotspur back in 1991?

But it is the spectre of debt for equity swaps that is getting plenty of people
in a lather just now. History has shown that since British banks are generally
unaccustomed to taking equity on to their books, they have had a tendency to
demand the most luxuriant terms - the cheapest possible share price, that is -
in return for wiping debt or renegotiating its terms. In reconstructions such as
Queens Moat Houses and Wembly, the banks involved subsequently made spectacular
returns from agreeing not to call in their loans.

In fact, it proved far better business than just lending money, and having it
paid back over time with interest.

As far as the present crisis is concerned, this is where our institutional
investment community should be coming in. Companies in trouble are only forced
to accept draconian terms from their bankers if other sources of finance have
dried up.

Firms such as Marconi - which clearly needs a large capital injection, urgently
- need a signal from fund managers that support will be provided.

Sure, the institutions have suffered along with everyone else as prices have
fallen over the past year. Their performance stats are in tatters.

Many funds also have substantial resources of cash. Rather than rabbiting on
about short-term technicalities of such stock lending, there is a chance here
for some of our bigger names in asset management to step forward and show that
they actually know how to make a long-term investment.

Editor's choice

One man who has decided to have a go at this share buying lark is Paul Dacre,
editor of the Daily Mail.

Yesterday he spent pounds 345,000 acquiring 63,000 non-voting 'A' shares in his
newspaper's parent company, Daily Mail & General Trust.

Earlier this year an innovative bonus scheme was introduced at the Mail, whereby
executives, at the invitation of chairman Viscount Rothermere, can place their
shares in a special pool.

If DMGT performs better than a group of its peers over the next seven years, the
company will match the executive's stock three for one. If past performance is
used as a guide, the value of Mr Dacre's maiden investment could reach about
pounds 4m, since throughout the 1990s DMGT produced compound annual returns of
20% for shareholders. Also under the bonus scheme he has room to spend another
pounds 900,000 on what is known in some financial circles as "sweet equity",
raising the potential bonus pot to pounds 15m or more.

The timing of Mr Dacre's investment is interesting. If he had bought stock when
the bonus scheme was published back in January, the editor would have been
sitting on a 40% loss by now.

But after this week's cautious trading statement and a rebound in the 'A' shares
from a low of 425p to 555p, he clearly believes this is the moment to buy for
the long term.

Other investors should consider following his example.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              439 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                   Irish News

                               September 28, 2001

Tourism must 'refocus' to attract European visitors;

BYLINE: By John Manley

SECTION:  Pg. 19

LENGTH: 379 words


IRISH tourism will have to refocus its overseas marketing strategy in the wake
of the US terrorist attacks, the chief executive of the new allIreland tourism
body said yesterday.

Tourism Ireland head Paul O'Toole was speaking after the cross-border agency's
board met this week to assess the fall-out from the September 11 attacks.

Tourism Ireland is set to take responsibility for marketing all-island tourism
overseas from January next year.

Ireland attracts nearly 1.3 million visitors from North America annually,
however, it is feared the global downturn in the airline and hospitality
industries will impact severely on visitor numbers over the coming months.

Speaking yesterday, Mr O'Toole said trading would have proved difficult next
year prior to the events in the US, because of the potential resurgence of
foot-and-mouth disease and the weakness of the American and UK economies.

"Obviously, events in the US will have a knock-on effect for ourselves and the
issue for us is to try and gauge and measure that impact, " he said.

"However, it's far too early to call, because the extent, duration and nature of
the reaction isn't known."

Mr O'Toole said Tourism Ireland will be producing a new marketing programme in
November, which may place more emphasis on Britain and Europe.

"Certainly, we will be looking for opportunities and growth in Europe and
Britain, " he said.

However, he insisted the board would monitor the situation and was determined to
ensure that the tourism industry would come through this unstable and difficult
situation.

"The US is a key market and has been very strong for Ireland over the last few
years and we can't forget about it, " he said "Whatever business is there, we
have to support the winning of that business, however difficult that may be.

We also need to position ourselves for the upturn when it eventually comes."

The Tourism Ireland chief executive said Irish tourism had suffered setbacks
before due to international events, but he was confident the sector would remain
buoyant.

"We would hope any damage will be minimal and any fall-out in terms of business
casualties will also be minimal, but it is going to very difficult trading and
we have to acknowledge that."

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NEW OPPORTUNITIES: Tourism Ireland chief executive Paul O'Toole

                     Copyright 2001 The Irish News Limited

                              440 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

STRAW WARNS OF TERROR THREAT TO UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 259 words


OSAMA bin Laden may be planning further terror attacks, possibly on Britain,
foreign secretary Jack Straw warned today.

Asked whether he believed the prime suspect in the September 11 atrocities in
America was planning further attacks which might affect this country, Mr Straw
replied: "Yes.

"There are two reasons why we have to have both a military coalition and then a
broader international consensus in support of that to root out the terrorism by
Osama bin Laden and the alQaida organisation.

"One is in order to bring those who caused the terrible events of September 11
in America to justice. The second is to stop them doing it again.

"You can't negotiate with these people. The best historical parallel, I'm afraid
to say, is those at the top of the Nazi regime.

"It wasn't possible to negotiate with Hitler, although some people thought that
it was."

Mr Straw continued: "We have to work on the basis that the al-Qaida organisation
is still there around the world . . . and that there continues to be a risk of
them making further attacks.

"We don't know exactly where. On the one hand none of us wish to raise anxiety
in the minds of the public, but we would be complacent and irresponsible not to
warn of the risks."

Mr Straw said he understood that it may be true that 11 hijackers passed through
Britain and that only underlined the need for tougher security measures.

He said: "The most fundamental civil liberty is the right to life, and
preserving that and sustaining that must come before others."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JACK STRAW: Tougher measures

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              441 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

BLAIR DENIES UK TERROR ATTACK FEARS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 260 words


THERE is no reason to believe there were any "significant" British connections
to the US suicide hijackings, Downing Street said today.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman also insisted there was no
evidence of a specific threat against the UK, despite comments made by Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw and his junior minister Peter Hain.

In what seemed a concerted bid to dampen speculation, the spokesman said:
"Speculation about UK connections to the attack on the US is exaggerated.

"At this stage in the investigation, both the US and the UK authorities have no
reason to believe there were significant British connections to these attacks.
We do believe a number of the hijackers transited the UK."

The spokesman cautioned against the widely reported figure of 11 hijackers
passing through Britain but would not elaborate further.

He added: "People should treat reports like this with caution. There is going to
be a period when there is claim, counter-claim and disinformation.

"We are going to be faced with wild claims and we need to be aware of it."

Earlier, Mr Straw had been asked on BBC Radio 4's Today programme whether Osama
bin Laden might be planning further attacks which might affect this country; he
replied simply: "Yes."

Speaking last night on BBC TV Mr Hain said: "I understand he (bin Laden) is
already preparing for highimpact attacks in the coming weeks."

Mr Blair's spokesman said: "It is not accurate to say that Peter Hain said there
was a new threat in Britain. He did not say that."

LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JACK STRAW: Earlier warning

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              442 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Morning Star

                               September 28, 2001

Blair accused of not defending Muslims;

SECTION:  Pg. 6

LENGTH: 281 words


BRITAIN'S leading Muslim newspaper accused Prime Minister Tony Blair yesterday
of failing to defend British Muslims at a time of "unprecedented violence."

The condemnation, from the Muslim News, was voiced as Mr Blair met with the
Muslim Council of Britain, which has attacked the media and politicians for
grouping together "Islam" and "terrorism."

Britain has been hit by a soaring number of racist assaults and attacks on
mosques following the terrorist attacks in the US.

And the Muslim News has attacked Mr Blair and senior cabinet colleagues for only
defending the Muslim community in articles and speeches addressed to largely
Muslim audiences.

In its editorial, the paper asks: "Why was Tony Blair telling the majority of
Muslims that they were peace-loving and not clarifying this to a more uninformed
audience through the mainstream press?

"Nothing was done to curb the limitless irresponsibility of some sections of the
media, which appeared to have been given a free license to whip up hysteria by
the examples set."

Muslim Aid chairman Iqbal Sacranie, who attended the Downing Street meeting,
said that the Muslim community was facing a backlash "although they have nothing
to do with the sort of attacks in America."

After the meeting, Mr Blair reiterated that attacks on "ordinary Muslims" would
not be tolerated.

"Our fight is not with Islam or with the people of Afghanistan, " he claimed.
"Our fight is with those who planned these terrible atrocities and those who
harbour them."

He admitted, alluding to the far-right groups, that "there is a minority who are
too happy to use recent events as a convienient cover for racism."

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2001

GRAPHIC: VOICING CONCERN: Prime Minister Tony Blair with British Muslims
Organisation vice-president Yosuf Bhailok in No 10 Downing Street yesterday.

               Copyright 2001 People's Press Printing Society Ltd

                              443 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Sentinel (Stoke)

                               September 28, 2001

Terrorists may be planning attacks on Britain, says Straw
 BA bosses take pay cuts

SECTION: Crime: Terrorism, Pg.2

LENGTH: 871 words


BRITISH Airways executives have agreed to cut their pay by up to 15 per cent in
a move to help the airline through "difficult times" in the aftermath of the
terrorist attacks in the United States.

Their decision comes after the airline announced big cuts in services and a halt
to flights between Heathrow and Belfast in the aftermath of the attacks.

A total of 190 flights will be scrapped or suspended, including 36 to the United
States, leading to a nine per cent reduction in capacity. The move was the
latest blow to the aviation industry, which has seen more than 100,000 jobs axed
and hundreds of planes grounded around the world since September 11.

The executive pay cuts will see chief executive Rod Eddington, who suggested the
move, have his

OSAMA bin Laden, the prime suspect in the American terrorist atrocities, may
well be planning further terror attacks - possibly on Britain, Foreign Secretary
Jack Straw warned today.

Mr Straw said: "There are two reasons why we have to have both a military
coalition and then a broader international consensus in support of that to root
out the terrorism by Osama bin Laden and the al-Qaida organisation and to break
it up and to deal with those states or semi-states who are sponsoring it.

"One is in order to bring those who caused the terrible events of September 11
to justice. The second is to stop them doing it again.

"You can't negotiate with these people. The best historical parallel I'm afraid
to say is those at the top of the Nazi regime. It wasn't possible to negotiate
with Hitler, although some people understandably but naively thought that it
was."

Mr Straw continued: "We have to work on the basis that this organisation is
still there around the world and that there continues to be a risk of them
making further attacks.

"None of us wish to raise anxiety, but we would be complacent and irresponsible
not to warn of the risks."

However, in an apparently contradictory statement, a Downing Street spokesman
today said there was no reason to believe there were any significant British
connections to the US suicide hijackings.

Prime Minister Tony Blair's official spokesman also insisted there was no
evidence of an specific threat against the UK, despite comments by Mr Straw and
his junior minister Peter Hain.

In what seemed a concerted bid to dampen speculation, the spokesman said:
"Speculation about UK connections to the attack on the United States is
exaggerated. At this stage in the investigation, both the US and the UK
authorities have no reason to believe there were significant British connections
to these attacks."

Meanwhile, Pakistan is to receive an extra GBP 11 million from the Government to
ease the deepening humanitarian crisis caused by refugees fleeing neighbouring
Afghanistan.

International Development Secretary Clare Short has set aside the extra money to
support the delivery of public health services, including the supply of drugs,
health equipment, water and sanitation services.

The assistance will focus on the most affected areas - North West Frontier
Province and Balochistan, which are closest to Afghanistan - but will also look
at humanitarian needs countrywide.

It is thought one million Afghans will arrive in Pakistan in the next few weeks
- fleeing from anticipated US-led military attacks and from a food crisis caused
by aid workers forced to leave their country.

Estimates suggest there are already 2.2 million Afghan refugees in Pakistan -
1.3 million in camps and the remainder integrated in the community.

President George Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair have both targeted
Afghanistan's ruling Taliban regime for harbouring Osama bin Laden, prime
suspect in the terrorist attacks in New York and Washington on September 11.

But Mr Blair has also urged the international community to form a "humanitarian
coalition" to help ordinary Afghans caught up in the crisis.

The aid package brings the total amount given to Pakistan by the UK since the
atrocities to GBP 36 million and is in addition to the current GBP 15 million
annual programme for poverty reduction there.

Announcing the assistance, Ms Short said: "Pakistan has hosted refugees for many
years through a period of conflict and, more recently, drought.

"The current crisis is placing new pressures on an already difficult economic
situation.

"The international community must do more to help not only with the immediate
refugee situation but also to ensure that poor and vulnerable communities in
Pakistan are adequately protected."

The additional aid comes as United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan warned
that more than 500 million dollars (GBP 339 million) was needed to save refugees
if the United States attacked Afghanistan. While Mr Blair and Mr Bush sent out
messages urging people to get on with their daily lives, the timing of a
retaliatory attack on Afghanistan and prime suspect Osama bin Laden remained
unclear.

Yesterday Afghan authorities said they had delivered a message to bin Laden
advising him of a decision by the country's clerics recommending that he leave
the country voluntarily.

The recommendation was made on September 20 by a council of clerics, or the
Ulema, during a

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                          Copyright 2001 The Sentinel

                              444 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Hampshire

                               September 28, 2001

The few remembered.

BYLINE: e@southerndigitalmedia.net luke (author email luke)

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 197 words

DATELINE: ANDOVER



THE first ever Battle of Britain parade in Andover was such an 'overwhelming'
success that the plan is to make it an annual event.

Organised by the Royal Air Force's Association to mark the 60th anniversary of
the Battle of Britain, the parade gathered at East Street car park at 2.30pm on
Sunday and marched to St Mary's Church for a special service.

In memory of those who died in the terrorist attack on New York the service
started with the American National Anthem, followed by our own National Anthem.

RAFA chairman Keith Burrows said the parade was supported by many organisations
including the Air Training Corps, the Army Cadets, the Scouts and the Cubs as
well as representatives from the other armed forces.

Mr Burrows said: "St Mary's Church was absolutely packed and the people of
Andover should be proud of themselves they way they turned out for us.

"It was an overwhelming success."

The parade was led by Test Valley (Mitutoyo) Brass band and after the church
service the salute was taken by Air Commodore Peter Whalley, Test Valley Mayor,
Cllr Jack Taylor, and the new president of the Andover RAFA branch, Air Vice
Marshall John Bowring.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              445 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 28, 2001

Trade Centre attack throws London airports into chaos.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 134 words

DATELINE: breaking news



London: Air travel from London has been thrown into chaos after the US was hit
by a devastating series of terrorist attacks.

Many US-bound flights had already left Britain when officials decided to shut
all US airports and ground all flights.

Officials at America-serving UK airports - such as Heathrow and Gatwick - were
trying to cope with the growing chaos.

It is not known whether the aircrafts will be rerouted back to the UK or
diverted to Canada.

A UK Airport spokeswoman said: "We're trying to find out where our in-flight
America-bound travellers will be able to land.

"It could be they may be able to put down in Canada. We also have a number of
flights due to leave for America later today.

"We are expecting that people on those flights will not be able to travel.''


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              446 of 500 DOCUMENTS

               UK Newsquest Regional Press - This is Local London

                               September 28, 2001

News analysis: The threat of a chemical attack.

SECTION: News

LENGTH: 635 words

DATELINE: breaking news



Barnet: With armed conflict and the possibility of reprisals growing by the day,
north London will take a leading role in the fight against terror. MATTHEW
NIXSON asks how vulnerable is the capital.

Among the many casualties of the recent US attacks was the conventional rulebook
of terror.

Before they guided airliners into the Pentagon and World Trade Centre towers, it
was assumed that terrorists had some regard at least for their own lives, if not
those of their victims. Past attacks on London by the IRA were demonstrations of
power as much as anything else. Casualties on the scale of New York were, in
theory at least, avoided. Not so anymore and the implications, potentially,
affect all of us.

Last week London's top police officer, Sir John Stevens, gave a stark warning
the capital could be the next target for a terrorist attack.

Who are the biggest allies of America? he asked. Which is the next biggest
target? It's got to be here.

Airliners aside, a nerve gas or germ warfare attack on the Underground could
cause hundreds of casualties and paralyse the capital. Experts believe
biological agents such as anthrax, ebola or botulism could be smuggled into
Britain in perfume bottles. Terrorists may already have such deadly weapons.

In March 1995, the Aum Shinrikyo cult released sarin gas on the Tokyo
underground. The nerve gas caused 12 deaths and more than 5,000 injuries.
Frighteningly, that attack was botched. Had it gone to plan, experts believe the
death toll could have hit the thousands. It spurred security forces around the
world to take another look at their precautions.

On Monday the World Health Organisation raised the spectre of a new type of
terrorism. Advances in technology had made it possible to kill millions of
people with chemical or biological weapons, it warned. Defence Minister Geoff
Hoon also raised the possibility of attacks, sparking a run on gas masks at army
surplus stores across the country.

The Colindale-based Public Health Laboratory Services (PHLS) role would be to
identify the source of an attack and advise on its elimination. It was set up in
1939 after concerns the Nazis would use chemical weapons and the north London
base would take the lead role in co-ordinating the efforts of the PHLS's 49 labs
across England, including so-called category four labs for the most dangerous
organisms.

Britain's stockpiles of vaccine are believed to be held at the Government's
chemical defence establishment at Porton Down. PHLS microbiologist Dr Nigel
Lightfoot says Britain is adequately equipped to deal with germ warfare on the
home front. He said his organisation had been working for several years to
prepare for the possibility of a bio-terrorist attack.

There are medical countermeasures which can be given to the public to protect
them. These include antibiotics to deal with viruses, he told a recent
conference.

The response to an attack on the capital, would be co-ordinated by the London
Fire and Emergency Planning Authority. A control room in .

While only certain fire rescue units have gas-resistant suits, all engines carry
chemical suits which could be used in the first instance of an attack.

Barnet Council leader Alan Williams would not discuss borough precautions for
security reasons but said wheels were in motion. Various community liaison
groups had already met to discuss measures appropriate to the borough.

Mr Williams stressed the attacks on America had been years in the planning. A
similar event over London was unlikely.

Despite reassurances, we really have no way of knowing how the capital would
cope in the event of an attack. One thing is for sure. After the World Trade
Centre attacks, the threat of global terrorism can no longer be dismissed as a
Hollywood invention.

Matthew Nixson

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: News

                  Copyright 2001 NewsQuest Media Group Limited

                              447 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                           September 28, 2001, Friday

BA EXECUTIVES AGREE TO 15PC PAY CUT;
 AIRLINE: END OF HEATHROW TO BELFAST SERVICE COULD HAVE KNOCK-ON EFFECT FOR
WELSH OWNERS OF AIRPORT

BYLINE: Patrick Fletcher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 597 words


BRITISH Airways executives have agreed to cut their pay by 15pc in a move to
help the airline through "difficult times" in the aftermath of the terrorist
attacks in the United States.

Chief executive Rod Eddington, who suggested the move, will have his pounds
525,000 basic salary cut by pounds 78,000.

All 12 executive directors have agreed to a 15pc pay cut, while 600 senior
managers are being asked to have their salaries reduced by 10pc.

Confidence in Britain's ailing airline industry slumped to a new low after BA
also announced major cuts in services to Europe and the US, including the end of
the Heathrow to Belfast link.

Britain's flagship carrier has been devastated by the fallout from the terror
attacks in the US with its operating profit cut by pounds 40m since the
September 11 outrage.

The decision to end flights on the Heathrow to Northern Ireland route will be a
major blow to the owners of Belfast International, Wales-based TBI.

It comes six weeks after British Midland announced it was switching its services
to the rival Belfast City airport at a potential cost to TBI of pounds 2m a year
in its profit margin.

TBI chief executive Keith Brooks is now facing a major hole in the company's
revenues.

It warned BA's move could cost it pounds 1.6m in profits this year and up to
pounds 5.3m over the following 12 months.

That's just over a quarter of its total profit, based on its results for the
last financial year and the news saw TBI's share price slide by almost 20pc on
the day, from 50p to 40.5p Yesterday's developments reflect severe anxiety
within the airline industry world-wide about passenger numbers draining away
because of fears of recession as well as the terrorism threat.

That uncertainty is bound to continue as the world waits to see what form US
retaliatory strikes will take against prime suspect Osama bin Laden and the
Taliban government.

BA said total of 190 services will be scrapped or suspended, including 36 fewer
flights to America.

The end of the Northern Ireland service means the closure of BA's operating base
at Belfast International Airport with the loss of 160 jobs.

David Spurlock, BA's director of strategy, said, "The current difficult market
conditions demand we take firm action. Our focus has to be on making best use of
our assets."

TBI said it would be taking action to mitigate the consequences of BA's Belfast
decision.

"While we are disappointed by the action that BA has taken, the 350,000
passengers affected will still need a route between Northern Ireland and London,
" said Mr Brooks.

He pointed out that Belfast had won new business with EasyJet and Go Fly adding
up to a million airline seats a year.

A spokesman for the company, which also owns Cardiff International, said the
airport in Wales was unlikely to be affected by what had happened yesterday.

pounds 339m cost of saving refugees THE United Nations will need more than US $
500m (pounds 339m) to save refugees if the US attacks Afghanistan, Secretary
-General Kofi Annan said yesterday.

Any aid may have to be dropped from planes because Afghanistan's Taliban
government have forced out foreign aid workers, said Mr Annan.

As much as 1,500 tons of stockpiled food has disappeared since the aid workers
left.

UN agencies will need $ 584m (pounds 396m) in all for the refugees, Mr Annan
said.

Drought and years of civil war have already forced 5m Afghans to flee their
homes, and officials estimate the number could rise to 7.5m - about the
population of Switzerland.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              448 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 28, 2001

Ring of steel to beat spectre of terrorism;
 BATTLEGROUND AFGHANISTAN, Blair prepares emergency package to beef up security

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 4

LENGTH: 384 words


A RING of steel will be thrown up around Britain as Tony Blair rushes an
emergency package of tough new anti-terror laws through Parliament.

Ministers are drawing up proposals centred on asylum seekers and extradition
rules, which are expected to close loopholes opened by the Convention of Human
Rights.

The move came as public confidence continued to plummet in the wake of the
terror attacks on America.

The air industry has been particularly hard hit and yesterday thousands more
jobs were axed across the sector, including up to 2,000 at the Shorts plant in
Belfast.

A total of 3,800 workers in the UK, U.S. and Canada will be laid off and a
further 2,700 will go unless markets recover.

Unions attacked Canadian firm Bombardier for announcing the cuts. Roger Lyons,
general secretary of the Manufacturing Science and Finance union, said: "This is
an unacceptable knee-jerk reaction and we will be asking some serious
questions."

The Government has already introduced new legislation to outlaw named groups
suspected of involvement with terrorism and detaining their members.

But suspects who come into the UK and apply for asylum cannot be touched and,
with the system for dealing with applicants notoriously slow, many disappear.

There is also frustration about a clause in the Human Rights Act which has made
it difficult to deport terror suspects back to countries where torture is used.

A new anti-terror package was being drawn up by Ministers, which may also
include new powers to freeze the bank accounts of suspects, following the
September 11 attacks.

The need became more urgent this week when it emerged 11 of the 19 suicide
hijackers spent time in Britain in the months before the atrocities, without
attracting the attention of the British security services.

MPs will hear details about the new legislation when they return to Parliament
on Thursday for a second emergency recall to discuss the response to the terror
attacks.

A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed: "We are looking at issues including
extradition, tougheningup security and data sharing internationally across
governments."

Meanwhile EU home affairs ministers have stepped up efforts for a common
extradition deal with the US and want detailed proposals by November.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              449 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 28, 2001

Ring of steel to beat spectre of terrorism;
 BATTLEGROUND AFGHANISTAN, Blair prepares emergency package to beef up security

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 4

LENGTH: 384 words


A RING of steel will be thrown up around Britain as Tony Blair rushes an
emergency package of tough new anti-terror laws through Parliament.

Ministers are drawing up proposals centred on asylum seekers and extradition
rules, which are expected to close loopholes opened by the Convention of Human
Rights.

The move came as public confidence continued to plummet in the wake of the
terror attacks on America.

The air industry has been particularly hard hit and yesterday thousands more
jobs were axed across the sector, including up to 2,000 at the Shorts plant in
Belfast.

A total of 3,800 workers in the UK, U.S. and Canada will be laid off and a
further 2,700 will go unless markets recover.

Unions attacked Canadian firm Bombardier for announcing the cuts. Roger Lyons,
general secretary of the Manufacturing Science and Finance union, said: "This is
an unacceptable knee-jerk reaction and we will be asking some serious
questions."

The Government has already introduced new legislation to outlaw named groups
suspected of involvement with terrorism and detaining their members.

But suspects who come into the UK and apply for asylum cannot be touched and,
with the system for dealing with applicants notoriously slow, many disappear.

There is also frustration about a clause in the Human Rights Act which has made
it difficult to deport terror suspects back to countries where torture is used.

A new anti-terror package was being drawn up by Ministers, which may also
include new powers to freeze the bank accounts of suspects, following the
September 11 attacks.

The need became more urgent this week when it emerged 11 of the 19 suicide
hijackers spent time in Britain in the months before the atrocities, without
attracting the attention of the British security services.

MPs will hear details about the new legislation when they return to Parliament
on Thursday for a second emergency recall to discuss the response to the terror
attacks.

A Home Office spokeswoman confirmed: "We are looking at issues including
extradition, tougheningup security and data sharing internationally across
governments."

Meanwhile EU home affairs ministers have stepped up efforts for a common
extradition deal with the US and want detailed proposals by November.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              450 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 27, 2001

Hijack terror supporters may be living in Britain;
 Terror in America: CABINET MEETING: poll shows huge support for Blair over
crisis

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 419 words


SENIOR government ministers were today being briefed by Prime Minister Tony
Blair on developments in the terrorism crisis at a special Cabinet meeting at 10
Downing Street.

The meeting comes as evidence grows that as many as 11 of the 19 suicide
hijackers who perpetrated the atrocities in New York and Washington spent time
in the UK in the months before the attacks.

Home Secretary David Blunkett last night admitted that the men had not been put
under surveillance by British security forces while in the UK, and said it was
possible that their supporters remained in the country.

Asked whether those who supported the hijackers in the UK were still here, Mr
Blunkett said: "I believe that we shouldn't rule it out."

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness confirmed that anti
-terrorist officers were investigating reports that some of the hijackers had
visited the UK, and warned that Britain might be a target for future attacks.

He said: "Looking at what the terrorists do next, we have to consider the
possibility of follow-up attacks.

"Clearly there is a need for new measures in what is a very serious change in
the threat."

But Mr Blunkett insisted that he did not believe any new outrage was "imminent"
in the UK and said he hoped police would swiftly trace the hijackers' movements
back to find anyone who offered them support in this country.

Five men remain in custody helping police with inquiries into alleged terrorist
activities, following arrests over the past week in Berkshire, Birmingham and
Leicester.

Today's Cabinet meeting comes amid indications that both the International
Monetary Fund and the British public expect the US attacks to have a severely
detrimental effect on the economy.

The IMF's chief economist Kenneth Rogoff yesterday told a press conference that
recession in the US was now a "done deal", while fallout from the terror attacks
could spark recession worldwide.

And the economic optimism index compiled by pollsters Mori showed the lowest
level of confidence among British people for more than 20 years.

The index, recording the proportion of people expecting the economy to improve
over the next 12 months, today stood at minus 56, down from minus 31 last month
and the lowest recorded since the recession of 1980.

But the survey, published in The Times, showed overwhelming backing for Mr
Blair's handling of the crisis, with 72 per cent approving of his actions
against 19 per cent disapproving.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              451 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

COUNTDOWN TO WAR: US ATTACKS SPARK UK TOURISM CRISIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 434 words


BRITAIN'S tourism industry stands to lose around pounds 2.5 billion this year as
a result of the terrorist attacks in the US and the effects of the foot-and
-mouth outbreak, tourism chiefs said yesterday.

Spending by overseas visitors in Britain, originally forecast at more than
pounds 13 billion for 2001, was now likely to be around pounds 10.8 billion, the
British Tourism Authority (BTA) warned.

David Quarmby, chairman of the BTA, said: "The tourism industry is facing an
unprecedented situation - a drop of nearly 20 per cent.

"It's been something of a double whammy year for tourism. It's the cumulative
effect of the foot-and-mouth outbreak since March and the terrorism attacks."

He said the situation could worsen if military strikes were launched and
predicted 75,000 jobs could be at risk.

Mr Quarmby added that London was the worst affected area, although York,
Stratford, Oxford, Edinburgh, Cambridge, Chester and Bath had also been badly
hit.

The figures have been put together by the BTA using market intelligence provided
by its offices throughout the world and by talks with several industry partners.

The authority predicted that Britain's key long-haul market, including the US,
Canada, Australia and Singapore, would all see significant falls in visitor
numbers in the last quarter of this year - conservatively estimated at between
15 and 25 per cent.

Latest figures show that last year there were 25.2 million overseas visitors to
the UK, who spent pounds 12.8 billion - making tourism one of Britain's most
important industries.

The downturn in visitor numbers has prompted the authority to review its
operation and modify its marketing plans.

Mr Quarmby said many of its autumn marketing activities had been postponed.

But he added the UK might expect more visitors from Europe as tourists opted for
short-haul flights rather than long-haul destinations and the number of people
coming to Britain to study English was also likely to increase, at the expense
of other countries.

A series of initiatives to boost tourism in the UK next year would be launched,
including campaigns to highlight the Queen's Golden Jubilee, walking, culture
and heritage holidays and the Commonwealth Games.

But he warned that it was impossible to speculate on the long-term effects of
the crisis.

Tourism took four years to recover following the Gulf War and it had been
predicted the effects of foot-and-mouth would last three years.

"The Gulf War was a short conflict but we don't know what's going to emerge from
this," Mr Quarmby said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              452 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: TEN TOXIC BOMB SUSPECTS HELD;
 DRIVERS QUIZZED ON BOGUS PERMITS ARRESTED: Algerian drivers (from left) Mohamed
Boualem Khnouni,; Madjid Sahouane, Mohammed Belaziz and Hakim Zerzour

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words


TEN Middle Eastern men have been arrested by US authorities following FBI
warnings that terrorists may strike next using chemical or biological weapons.

s=9

f-z Agents investigating the terrorist attacks on the World Trade Centre and
Pentagon arrested the men on suspicion of fraudulently obtaining licences to
transport hazardous materials.

The arrests - part of a global crackdown - took place in Missouri, Michigan and
Washington state. Authorities said as many as 20 people who had the bogus
permits - some of whom may have connections to the 19 hijackers involved in the
September 11 attacks - had been charged but may not be linked to the attacks.

It was too early to tell whether any of those arrested are connected to the
attacks on the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon, said Justice Department
spokesman Susan Dryden.

In court papers the FBI said a Middle Eastern man named Abdul Mohamman, known as
'Ben', acted as a middle man, bringing in as many as 30 drivers who fraudulently
obtained commercial licences to carry hazardous materials.

Across the globe, authorities continued to crack down on terrorism suspects. In
several Spanish cities, police detained six Algerians allegedly linked to Osama
bin Laden, the chief suspect in the suicide jet attacks, and to a group
suspected of planning attacks on US targets in Europe.

In Britain police were today questioning seven men arrested under the Terrorism
Act outside an RAF base.

Hidden

The men were arrested yesterday outside RAF Lakenheath in Suffolk, the United
States Air Force's biggest air base in Europe.

Police found six Iraqi men hidden in a lorry. The stowaways and the German
driver were arrested. They were detained in connection with illegal immigration
offences but were also held under terror laws.

Detectives were today given more time to question two men arrested last week. A
district judge at Bow Street Magistrates Court in central London gave them until
Friday to quiz Lotfi Raissi, aged 27, and Abu Imard, aged 44.

Both men were arrested last Friday - Raissi in Colnbrook, Berkshire and Imard in
Birmingham.

Detectives in the Midlands are also continuing to interview three men arrested
in Leicester yesterday over possible links to a planned attack on US targets in
Europe. One of those men was a French national.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              453 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERROR: MYSTERY BUYER SNAPS UP BUNKER;
 UNDERGROUND SHELTER A 'BARGAIN' AT POUNDS 8,000

BYLINE: Phil Banner BARGAIN: Stephen Edwards in the disused bunker which has
recently been sold for less than pounds 8,000

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 430 words


A DISUSED nuclear fall-out shelter, set in the Midlands countryside, has been
sold to a mystery buyer for the knock-down price of less than pounds 8,000, it
was revealed today.

The farsighted purchaser, who insists on remaining anonymous, would appear to
have a great property bargain in the light of the American terrorism crisis.

For farmer Mike Parrish, aged 52, from Essex, has announced he is selling places
in a private nuclear bunker for pounds 30,000 each.

The Midland bunker, set in rolling countryside in Burford, near Tenbury Wells,
Worcestershire, was put on the market before Spring this year.

It could probably be sold for many times the agreed figure if it was put up for
sale now with fears spreading throughout Britain about a possible terrorist
attack.

Set on high ground near the Clee Hill, the concrete-encased bunker measures 18ft
X 7ft 6ins.

It is descended via a step ladder and inside is a chemical toilet and two metal
beds.

Developer Stephen Edwards, aged 45, said that he discovered the bunker when he
bought 168-acre Green Way Head Farm.

He said: 'I bought the farm and did not know it was there. It was just mentioned
to me when I acquired the keys.'

He added: 'You cannot see it from the road. It has got its own gateway coming
from a country lane.

Reading

'I believe it was last used in 1964 by the Royal Observer Corp. They used to
check nuclear reading equipment and about six men worked there at one time.'

A spokesman for estate agents McCartney's of Tenbury Wells, said: 'A sale of the
bunker has been agreed and is currently going through.

'It went for nearly the pounds 8,000 which was being asked, but I cannot divulge
the exact figure. The purchaser has also made it quite clear that he does not
wish to be identified.'

Mr Parrish, who owns a bunker at Kelvedon Hatch, Essex, said he was considering
two 'serious offers' for places and expected more to follow.

His bunker was built during the Cold War to protect up to 250 Government
officials. It is 80ft deep, has 10ft-thick walls and has an air filtration
plant, dormitories, a canteen and television studio.

Meanwhile, it was revealed that a privately-owned nuclear bunker in Shenstone,
near Lichfield, Staffordshire, had been 'concreted in'.

The owners of Shenstone Hall Farm took the action more than two years ago,
shortly after eco-warriors fighting Birmingham's Northern relief Road broke into
the shelter.

Do you own a nuclear bunker? If so, contact the Evening Mail on 0121 234 5678
and tell us why you bought it.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              454 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 27, 2001

HIJACKERS STAYED IN UK;
 WORLD ON THE BRINK - No surveillance on visiting terrorists

SECTION: News, Pg.4

LENGTH: 399 words


THE terrorists who attacked New York and Washington were not under surveillance
while they were in the UK, Home Secretary David Blunkett has confirmed.

As many as 11 of the 19 suicide hijackers passed through Britain in the months
before the attacks.

Mr Blunkett told BBC2's Newsnight last night it was possible the support network
that may have helped the terrorists during their visit to the UK could still be
in place.

And Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness warned yesterday of
the danger of further terrorist attacks in the UK perpetrated by contacts of the
September 11 killers.

He told reporters: "Looking at what the terrorists do next, we have to consider
the possibility of followup attacks. Clearly there is a need for new measures in
what is a very serious change in the threat."

But the Mr Blunkett urged caution. He said: "Of course we have to be vigilant.
That is not the same as believing that there is about to be an imminent attack
in this country."

Investigations are thought to be hampered by the use of multiple identities by
the hijackers.

Scotland Yard has received more than 100 requests from the FBI to trace
suspects, witnesses and other people connected with the case.

So far 3,600 calls have been made by members of the public to the anti
-terrorist hotline and police forces around the country.

As part of the early response to the new terrorist threat, the Special Branch
and the Anti-Terrorist Squad have been beefed up.

Senior government ministers were today being briefed by Prime Minister Tony
Blair on developments in the terrorism crisis at a special Cabinet meeting.

The announcement yesterday of today's special Cabinet, which has forced Foreign
Secretary Jack Straw to cut short his visit to the Middle East, sparked
speculation that the beginning of military operations might be near.

But Mr Blair's official spokesman insisted that nothing should be read into the
timing of the meeting, which was "purely logistical".

Police were today questioning seven men arrested under the Terrorism Act outside
an RAF base.

The men were arrested yesterday outside RAF Lakenheath, which is the United
States Air Force's biggest air base in Europe.

Police found six Iraqi men in a lorry. The stowaways and the German driver were
arrested and detained in connection with immigration offences.

LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              455 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

HOTELS RAPPED FOR COST AND SERVICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 212 words


HOTELS in Britain are often overpriced and provide unacceptable levels of
service compared with their international counterparts, according to a guide
book.

British hotels are the most expensive in Europe at every price level, even
compared with countries traditionally regarded as pricey, such as Sweden and
Switzerland, states the Which? Hotel Guide 2002.

Hotels needed to urgently rethink their policies if they wanted to bounce back
after a poor year because of foot and mouth and the recent terrorist attacks,
said co-editor Kim Winter.

She said customers' expectations had risen, mainly because they travelled more,
enabling them to compare standards around the world, but British hotel standards
had not increased accordingly.

She also accused British hotel managers of focusing too much on unnecessary
extras, such as chocolates on pillows at bedtime, instead of getting the basics
right.

"Hoteliers need to take a good hard look at what they are offering.

"One of our readers wrote to us to say he felt hotels were pricing themselves
out of tourism either by greed or the attitude that they can charge as much as
they can get away with, and in some cases that's not far from the truth."

The 2002 guide book is published on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              456 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

TERROR CRISIS BRIEFING FOR BLAIR'S TOP TEAM;
 NEW ALERT AS OFFICIALS SAY SUPPORTERS OF SUICIDE HIJACKERS MAY STILL BE IN
BRITAIN

BYLINE: Andrew Woodcock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 224 words


SENIOR government ministers were today being briefed by Prime Minister Tony
Blair on developments in the terrorism crisis at a special Cabinet meeting.

It comes as evidence grows that as many as 11 of the 19 suicide hijackers who
perpetrated the atrocities in New York and Washington spent time in the UK
before the attacks.

Home Secretary David Blunkett said the men had not been put under surveillance
by British security forces while in the UK. It was possible their supporters
remained in the country.

Metropolitan Police Assistant Commissioner David Veness confirmed that anti
-terrorist officers were investigating reports that some of the hijackers had
visited the UK, and warned that Britain might be a target for future attacks.

"Looking at what the terrorists do next, we have to consider the possibility of
follow-up attacks.

"Clearly there is a need for new measures in what is a very serious change in
the threat."

But Mr Blunkett insisted that he did not believe any new outrage was "imminent"
in the UK and said he hoped police would swiftly trace the hijackers' movements
back to find anyone who offered them support in this country.

Five men remain in custody helping police inquiries into alleged terrorist
activities, following arrests over the past week in Berkshire, Birmingham and
Leicester.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              457 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

POUNDS 2.5BN BLOW FOR TOURISM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 169 words


BRITAIN'S tourism industry stands to lose around pounds 2.5bn this year as a
result of the terrorist attacks in the US and the effects of the foot-and-mouth
outbreak, tourism chiefs said yesterday.

Spending by overseas visitors in Britain, originally forecast at more than
pounds 13bn for 2001, was now likely to be around pounds 10.8 billion, the
British Tourism Authority warned.

David Quarmby, chairman of the BTA, said: "The tourism industry is facing an
unprecedented situation, a drop of nearly 20pc "It has been something of a
double whammy year for tourism. It's the cumulative effect of the foot-and
-mouth outbreak since March and the terrorism attacks in recent weeks."

Mr Quarmby said the situation could get worse if military strikes started and he
predicted that 75,000 jobs could be at risk because of the dire situation.

Mr Quarmby added that London was the worst-affected area, although York,
Stratford, Oxford, Edinburgh, Cambridge, Chester and Bath also had been badly
hit.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              458 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

IMF says American recession 'likely'

BYLINE: By David Litterick

SECTION: Pg. 39

LENGTH: 360 words

THE International Monetary Fund said yesterday that there was a "significant
likelihood" that the American economy would fall into recession, although it
added that the world economy would continue to grow, provided there was no
"further bad turn of events".

Chief economist Kenneth Rogoff was forced to retract comments, made earlier in
the day following the release of the IMF's World Economic Outlook, that a US
recession was a "done deal".

The report confirmed leaked figures that the UK economy is expected to expand by
2pc this year and by 2.4pc in 2002. However, it was compiled before September 11
and does not take into account the effect of the terrorist attacks on the US,
which the IMF said significantly increased the risk of a further downturn in
world growth.

Mr Rogoff urged eurozone nations, which are expected to expand at a slower rate
than Britain, to carry out structural reforms to boost their economies.

Meanwhile, consumer confidence in the UK fell during September, although the
effects of the US terrorism attacks have been less severe than feared.

A survey compiled by the UK arm of German financial institute GfK shows
confidence falling from August's balanced zero reading to minus one - indicating
that more consumers are now pessimistic than are optimistic about economic
prospects.

The survey was carried out on dates before and after the terrorist attacks. If
only the responses gathered after September 11 are counted, the figure falls to
minus three. This is still comfortably above lows of minus five seen last year.

CBI chief economist Ian McCafferty said: "It is no surprise that consumers are
slightly less confident, but these are reassuring figures."

Figures from the Office for National Statistics yesterday showed the annual rate
of UK productivity growth, measured by output per employee, falling to 1.6pc in
the second quarter from 2.1pc in the first, as the global slowdown continued.

The fall was particularly marked in the recession-hit manufacturing sector.

Correspondingly, unit wage costs increased by 3.5pc in the second quarter,
compared with an increase of 2.5pc in the first quarter.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              459 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

30,000 jobs at risk in tourist slump

BYLINE: By Paul Marston Transport Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 468 words

THE TOURISM industry in Britain will lose almost pounds 1 billion and up to
30,000 jobs over the next three months because of the terrorist attacks in
America, industry leaders forecast yesterday.

As Kim Howells, tourism minister, stressed the need to combat people's "palpable
fear of flying", the British Tourist Authority gave warning that demand could
sink even lower next year if United States-led military action proved more
extensive than expected. The authority estimated that the number of Americans
visiting Britain would fall by 20 to 25 per cent in the last quarter of this
year, compared with the same period in 2000.

Because American citizens normally constitute the largest national group of
incoming tourists and spend, on average, nearly twice as much as European
travellers, the slump in transatlantic demand is particularly serious.

David Quarmby, BTA chairman, said the only precedent for the present situation
was the 1991 Gulf war, after which it took four years for United States demand
to recover to previous levels.

He added that the present outlook for the industry could easily be worse.

"The Gulf war was quite a short, sharp operation, which had a beginning, a
middle and an end," he said.

"This time, we are dealing with events that are more uncertain.

"We have no idea of the consequences of military engagement, or how the whole
international scene will unfold." The authority said hotels, restaurants,
theatres and attractions in London would be worst affected, though other
destinations popular with Americans, such as Bath, Stratford, Edinburgh, Oxford,
Cambridge, York and Chester would also suffer severely.

Mr Howells said tourism faced an unprecedented challenge.

"What I have picked up at all levels is that there is a palpable fear of flying.
We have to build up people's sense of security, and confidence in flight. That
is a big issue," he said. He promised that an unused pounds 60 million from the
pounds 300 million originally allocated by the Government to assist tourist
businesses hit by the foot-and-mouth outbreak would be redirected as aid to
operators caught up in the fallout of the terrorist outrages.

The BTA said the industry had received a "double whammy" this year, with loss of
income from foot and mouth and the September 11 attacks likely to reach pounds
2.5 billion at a cost of 75,000 jobs, or nearly 20 per cent of last year's
workforce.

Confidence in the economy has fallen to the lowest level since the recession of
the early 1980s, according to a Mori poll for The Times.

The proportion of people thinking that economic conditions will improve rather
than get worse over the next 12 months is now minus 56 points.

This compares with minus 31 points a month ago, when the public was already
worrying about a downturn.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              460 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

Protesters invade abandoned US embassy

BYLINE: By Alex Spillius

SECTION: Pg. 04

LENGTH: 486 words

THOUSANDS of protesters attacked the abandoned United States embassy compound in
the Afghan capital yesterday, setting cars and outbuildings ablaze and ripping
down the American government emblem.

It was the largest anti-American protest since the terrorist attacks in New York
and Washington.

Protesters vowed to attack the embassies of countries aiding America.

There are fears that the unused British embassy, an elegant reminder of
Britain's often disastrous presence in Afghanistan, situated on a secluded
hillside above Kabul, may be one of the first targets.

Witnesses said that protesters angry at the prospect of American military action
against Osama bin Laden and his Taliban hosts broke into a run as they neared
the American embassy.

Shouting "Long Live Osama" and "Death to America", they stoned the iron gates
and burned an American flag and an effigy of President Bush before pouring over
the wall.

The building, in the centre of the devastated city, has been abandoned since
1989.

Although all American diplomats and staff left the embassy then, the sprawling
complex - once a key listening post in central Asia - remained mothballed, its
diplomatic status respected by all of those who have controlled Kabul since.

What started as a peaceful protest by government officers and students spiralled
into a frenzied attack. It was not clear whether it was orchestrated or
spontaneous.

Several men used hammers and crowbars to remove the emblem above the front
entrance as some of the crowd danced jubilantly around the grounds.

Amid scenes of pandemonium, fires were started and black smoke billowed into the
sky over Kabul. Young men ripped up cabling from walls and pathways to feed the
inferno.

The hulks of dozens of abandoned embassy vehicles, long cannibalised for spare
parts, were also set upon and burned.

Afghanistan has a long history of putting to the torch the embassies of nations
that are seen as hostile.

The former British embassy was a gem of imperial 1920s architecture, with lavish
reception rooms, a large ballroom and oak-panelled library, all surrounded by a
26-acre compound with three tennis courts, a hockey pitch and squash courts.

In its day it was one of the most sought-after postings in the foreign service.

In 1994 it was handed over to the Pakistan government. Months later it was
burned to the ground during a demonstration organised by the then government -
now the opposition United Front - in protest at Islamabad's support for the
Taliban.

The present British embassy, once the hospital of the original complex, could
suffer a similar fate to that of the United States. So far it has survived
remarkably intact.

Since 1998, when America bombed a bin Laden base in eastern Afghanistan in
revenge for explosions at two of its east African embassies, the property has
not been used by British envoys.
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              461 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 27, 2001

Police track 100 names linked to terror strikes

BYLINE: Justin Davenport;Richard Holliday

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 417 words


ANTITERRORIST SQUAD detectives are tracking more than 100 names with possible
British connections to the US attacks.

They are convinced that a core of terrorists plotted at least part of the
atrocities in Britain.

Police sources said they were investigating 100 requests for assistance from the
FBI - which established 11 of the 19 hijackers flew into the US from Britain
some time in the past six months - relating to possible British suspects.

British security services did not put the terrorists who attacked New York and
Washington under surveillance when they were in the UK, Home Secretary David
Blunkett has confirmed.

Mr Blunkett told BBC2's Newsnight last night that it was possible that the
support network that may have helped the terrorists during their visit to
Britain could still be in place. Asked whether the men were watched while they
were here, Mr Blunkett said: "As far as I am aware, they were not.

"That doesn't mean to say that there hadn't been some intelligence about them.
Some of them will have passed through, some will have stayed over."

Asked if any of the terrorists' contacts might still be in the country, Mr
Blunkett said: "I believe that we shouldn't rule it out."

One possibility is that a significant number used contacts in London and Britain
to plot and raise money for the suicide missions.

Police are hampered by what appears to be an extraordinary loophole in the
security system at airports. They say there is no computerised-system to match
people arriving in Britain with those leaving the country. A senior Scotland
Yard source admitted there was now a review of antiterrorist procedures.

The fear in security circles is that other terrorist groups will carry out
copycat attacks on British targets. Inquiries are focusing on at least 16
suspect Islamic terrorist organisations who are now banned in Britain.

Detectives admit that none of the names identified as hijackers by the FBI were
on any database of possible suspects. An antiterrorist hotline has had more than
2,500 calls with information about the attacks. Police are faced with the
difficulties many of the suspects operated with different identities and
passports.

Two people arrested last week in connection with the World Trade Center attacks
are still being questioned at Paddington Green Police Station while another
three are being held in Leicester in connection with an alleged plot to bomb US
embassies in France and possibly Britain.


LOAD-DATE: September 28, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              462 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 2001

On the brink of war: British consumer confidence dented: Economy: Half believe
things will worsen

BYLINE: Heather Stewart

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 303 words


The terrorist atrocities of September 11 have dented the confidence of British
consumers, with almost half now believing the domestic economy will deteriorate
over the next year, it emerged yesterday.

The monthly consumer confidence barometer declined for the third successive
month but results gathered after the attacks show a more marked slide in
optimism, according to GfK, which conducts the research. Of those interviewed
after September 11, some 49% expect the British economy to get worse in the
coming year.

Confidence is often a good indicator of spending plans, and yesterday's figures
may raise fears that consumers will stay away from the shops in following the
attacks.

But analysts pointed out that the decline in confidence in the wake of the
attacks was much less dramatic than that seen in the US, which earlier this week
showed its sharpest drop in optimism in more than 10 years.

"It could have been a lot worse and it wouldn't appear to suggest that the
consumer is going to lead the economy into recession," said Ciaran Barr, chief
UK economist at Deutsche Bank in London.

The CBI's chief economist Ian McCafferty echoed this. He said: "In these
uncertain times it's no surprise that consumers are slightly less confident. But
these are reassuring figures which suggest that events in the US have not led to
the collapse in consumer confidence some have talked about."

* Terrorist attacks on America have not dented UK demand for new homes,
according to one of Britain's largest housebuilders, Barratt Development.

There had been a fall in buyer interest in the US and Britain immediately after
the assault but normal trade has resumed. Barratt says the property sector
should not suffer even in an economic slump, as there is an under-supply of new
houses.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              463 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 27, 2001

Don't panic? Why not?

BYLINE: Catherine Bennett

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1018 words


War, as even his former critics now admit, seems to suit Tony Blair. The
hawk-eyed look appears to be more bearable than the evangelist grin; the
invincible globe-trotting more impressive than his parochial routine. Even
Richard Littlejohn, Blair's friskiest persecutor, has conceded that the
"grinning jackanapes", as he used to style our leader, has so far "behaved
impeccably and it is only fair to congratulate him. He has made the right noises
and taken the right decisions." It has, perhaps, further recommended Blair to
his old detractors that so many of these noises and decisions have been taken
far away, with Blair entirely out of sight.

Blair's domestic appearances since September 11 have been few, and, at first,
understandably so. He expressed his horror to a news conference immediately
after the attacks and elaborated on their consequences at an emergency session
of parliament on September 14. This week, he made his most warrior-like,
jutty-chinned speech to date, throwing down a gauntlet to the Taliban at a press
conference.

There has not, however, uncharacteristically for Blair, and in contrast to
previous crises in his administration, been any address directly to the people.
When Britain began bombing Belgrade in 1999, for example, Blair went on
television to justify the operation: "This is simply the right thing to do."

True, Britain is not formally at war, just threatening it, but then we weren't
at war when Princess Diana died and Blair chose to express the national sorrow:
"I feel like everyone else in this country today." Nor were we at war in 2000,
when Blair addressed the public from Downing Street (and produced a signed piece
for the Sun), saying he "understood" the fuel protesters' "genuinely and
sincerely held grievance" about having to pay for petrol. Meanwhile, a
procession of ministers told us not to worry, emergency measures were now in
place, and normal life - ie, lots of petrol - would be restored without delay.

A year ago we faced a few disagreeable truckers and irksome waits at petrol
stations. There was also a run on bread. Today, having lost almost 200 British
citizens, we are threatening war and becoming increasingly exercised by the
possibility of further attacks from terrorists who, as Blair and Jack Straw
pointed out in parliament on September 14, might deploy "chemical and biological
weapons, missiles or nuclear weapons or other forms of mass destruction . . ."
Leaving that to sink in, he and Blair departed for further diplomatic
engagements.

Since Straw and Blair said these frightening things, the advice to the public in
the event of such a catastrophe has, as Esther Addley explained in G2 yesterday,
ranged from non-existent to misleading. The lack of information is so total that
it makes that much-derided 1980 pamphlet, Protect and Survive, with its plain
counsel on what to do during a nuclear attack - "send the children to the
fall-out room . . ." - look positively constructive.

The authorities responsible for civil defence may feel that as they have nothing
encouraging to impart, silence is preferable to a potentially panic-inducing
confession of impotence. But, as it is, the lack of official directives is
allowing, if not encouraging, extensive anxiety, a frantic searching for
protective suits and masks and a torrent of ghoulish newspaper articles
exploring the particular kinds of death - suppurating/instant but in
agony/bleeding from rectum/protracted, etc ,etc, which could occur, depending on
what the terrorists have brewed up or bought in from Uzbekistan.

Even before the World Health Organisation urged governments to formalise plans
of action in the case of such emergencies, mothers of young children - who are
probably the least abashed in evincing an entirely selfish preoccupation with
their own flesh and blood - were exchanging evacuation plans around the school
gates. In motherly chatrooms, such as the one on mumsnet, women have been
concluding, with cheery fatalism, that the best course is probably one of the
comfier forms of family suicide, such as paracetamol. "Don't use paracetomol," a
more clued-up contributor interjected. "Maybe drink yourself to death . . ."

The official response to such anxiety, neurotic and pointless as it may be, has
been a resounding silence. There have been no public addresses, no offerings of
advice, no reassurance, no parliamentary discussions, certainly no pamphlets.
Which can only add to the ferment of amateur speculation, the hatching of a
thousand more dotty escape routes - down mines, by boat to uninhabited islands,
off to Australia, or wherever now constitutes the least dangerous environment on
earth.

The more comical aspects of this general, gathering twitchiness do not diminish
its reality and the dangers to the vulnerable of extreme, unchecked fear.
Non-information and non-leadership cannot be the best way to check hysteria.
Even some grim facts - such as, gasmasks won't work so don't bother: anthrax
vaccinations have never been tested on children, so forget it - would be
preferable to the current scrabbling for protective outfits and countrywide
exchanges of horror stories ("Did you know the black death killed a third of
Europe and that was spread by flea bites?") and rumoured safe havens: "Wonder if
Suffolk would be safe ground," ponders one mumsnet contributor. Not in the case
of anthrax or smallpox, I think - but, like the present government, I'm no
expert on civil defence.

A number of recent articles have asked, "What do you tell the children?"; a less
pressing matter, I would have thought, than what do you tell the parents? What
do we do in the event of an attack? Hold our identity cards over our heads,
pinch our noses and await rescue? Hide under the stairs? Retreat to Suffolk? Are
we right to prepare our minds, if not our bodies, for catastrophe, or is the WHO
guilty of a massive wind-up? Has a single doctor been vaccinated against
anthrax? Do the sirens still work? Does Tony Blair understand our genuine and
sincerely felt anxiety? Is there anybody out there?


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              464 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 27, 2001

Six arrested in Spain as hunt continues

BYLINE: Louise Branson And Valerie Hannah

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 488 words


THE international hunt for terrorists suspected of being linked to the attacks
on New York and Washington continued yesterday as six men were arrested in
Spain, and detectives in Britain obtained a 48-hour extension to question two
men arrested last week.

In the US, the FBI revealed that 20 men arrested since September 11 had obtained
or were trying to obtain special licences allowing them to transport explosives,
poisons, or other types of hazardous material.

Lofti Raissi, 27, and Abu Imard, 44, will be questioned at Paddington Green
police station in west London for a further two days, after which they must be
charged or released under the terrorism act 2000. The men arrested in Spain are
said to be Algerian-born and are reported to belong to an Islamic extremist
group backed by the prime suspect, Osama bin Laden.

They were arrested during dawn raids in a number of Spanish cities yesterday,
but an official from the interior ministry declined to say if there was evidence
linking them to the American terrorist attacks.

In the US, the FBI is conducting a massive check of lorry drivers licensed to
carry hazardous materials - or "hazmat" - because of fears that terrorists could
be planning another deadly attack.

In New York, spot inspections at tunnels and bridges leaving Manhattan made
traffic jams so bad that Mayor Rudolph Giuliani urged commuters to use public
transport.

Authorities said that few of the "hazmat licence" men in custody were co
-operating.

Their names have not been released, but all are being held on suspicion of lying
about their identities on applications for licences.

They "may have" links to the 19 hijackers, according to John Ashcroft, the US
attorney general, who said: "These people may have looked at a broader range of
ways to attack us."

Heavy trucks have been used in previous deadly bombings attributed to followers
of bin Laden.

A Nissan Atlas refrigerator truck packed with explosives was used in the US
embassy bombings in East Africa in 1998, and a rental truck packed with
explosives was used in the 1993 bombing of the World Trade Centre.

In total, 300 people have been detained by the FBI in connection with the
terrorist attacks and 300 others are being sought, but some senior officials
have expressed frustration that firm leads are not emerging.

Back in Britain, a government minister warned yesterday that the gangs
responsible for the New York and Washington attacks could target the internet as
a future stage in their assault on the West.

Douglas Alexander, the e-commerce minister, called for a sharpened focus on
internet security in the wake of the September 11 attacks.

At a conference in London, Mr Alexander warned that companies which fail to take
the necessary measures to stop their systems being used to spread viruses would
increasingly face the censure of a more security-conscious society.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: MEMORIAL: American and United Airlines employees at a service in Boston
yesterday for the 22 members of the flight crews killed on the jets that hit the
World Trade Centre. Picture: Brian Snyder/Reuters

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited

                              465 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM: TERROR ATTACKS 'ARE TIPPING THE WORLD ECONOMY INTO RECESSION'

BYLINE: Philip Thornton Economics Correspondent Kenneth Rogoff: Attack increased
'downside risks'

SECTION: TITLE PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 742 words


THE TERRORIST attacks on the United States will tip the global economy into
recession, the world's leading financial watchdog warned yesterday.

The International Monetary Fund (IMF) said a recession in America was a "done
deal", while the rest of the world was on the brink of a slump even before the
suicide plane attacks on New York and Washington. The bleak outlook came as the
first survey of the British economy since the outrage showed that confidence
among British consumers had plunged to its lowest since the previous recession
10 years ago.

The IMF cut its forecast for world growth from 3.2 per cent to an eight- year
low of 2.6 per cent. Economists regard global growth of 2.5 per cent as a
recession. The IMF said its forecasts were drawn up before the 11 September
attacks, which it warned could drag growth below even that low level. The 2002
forecast was cut to 3.5 from 3.9 per cent.

Kenneth Rogoff, its chief economist, said: "There is no doubt the attack is
having a negative effect in many regions of the globe. It has increased what
were significant downside risks to the short-term outlook."

The main casualties will be Japan, which is expected to shrink 0.5 per cent this
year, and America, which is now likely to grow by only 1.3 per cent.

The IMF said Britain would grow by only 2 per cent this year - the lowest growth
since 1992. This means the Government will miss its target of between 2.25 and
2.75 per cent. That, in turn, could jeopardise its spending plans, which are
based on growth of 2.25 per cent a year.

John Butler, UK economist at HSBC, said Gordon Brown would have to cut his
forecasts in November's pre-Budget report, perhaps to 1.75 per cent. He said the
Chancellor risked breaking the rules - which prevent him racking up huge
deficits - if growth stayed at 2 per cent in 2002. "Were that to happen, Mr
Brown would be under pressure to scale back his spending plans or raise taxes in
the approach to the next general election," he said.

A Treasury spokesman said it was too early to speculate, adding: "The IMF shows
us to be the fastest-growing country in the European Union both this year and
next."

Further interest-rate cuts in America and Britain are now a certainty, most
economists believe. The Bank of England was criticised last week for cutting
rates by only 0.25 points to 4.75 per cent instead of following the US Federal
Reserve lead with a half-point cut.

Richard Iley, a UK economist, forecast that rates would fall to 4 per cent by
the end of the year, their lowest for 50 years. "The collapse in world trade and
lower share prices will force the Bank to shore up consumer demand," he said.

Lloyd's of London, meanwhile, unveiled its long-awaited estimate that the terror
attacks in America would lead to net insurance claims of pounds 1.3bn - is
largest ever single payout.

There was further gloom for Britain with news of further job cuts and a warning
that the tourism industry could lose pounds 2.5bn from the effects of the
terrorist attacks and foot-and-mouth disease.

Shorts Brothers is cutting 900 jobs by February; Delta Air Lines announced
13,000 redundancies; Air Canada will cut 5,000 jobs, Scandinavian Airlines
Systems 1,100, and Bombardier, Shorts' Canadian parent, up to 6,500. British
Airways and Virgin Atlantic will cut 8,200 jobs and Boeing, the giant American
aircraft manufacturer, 30,000.

The British Tourism Authority said the airlines' decision to cut flight
schedules would lead to a sharp fall in overseas visitors. Spending by foreign
tourists, originally forecast at more than pounds 13bn for 2001, was now likely
to be about pounds 10.8bn.

David Quarmby, its chairman, said: "It's been a double whammy year for tourism.
It's the cumulative effect of foot-and-mouth and the terrorism attacks." He said
the situation would worsen if military strikes were launched and predicted
75,000 jobs were at risk.

t Public confidence in the economy has collapsed since the terror attacks, an
opinion poll says today. Voters are now more pessimistic about the economy than
at any time since 1980, when Britain faced severe recession. The Mori index in
The Times, measuring the proportion of people who think the economic position
will improve over the next year, is now minus 56 points. Last month, it was
minus 31 points.

War on Terrorism, pages 2 to 9; Lloyd's losses, page 18; Outlook, tax havens
warned, page 19

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              466 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

WAR ON TERRORISM: SCOTLAND YARD INVESTIGATES MOVEMENTS OF 11 HIJACKERS;
  BRITAIN

BYLINE: Jason Bennetto Crime Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 421 words


AT LEAST 11 of the hijackers who carried out the suicide attack in America
passed through Britain and may also have stayed here, according to information
given to Scotland Yard by the FBI.

The Metropolitan Police's anti-terrorist branch is also investigating whether
the other eight terrorists responsible for the atrocities and members of their
back-up teams were in Britain in the month before the attacks.

The FBI has given anti-terrorist officers a list of the names of the 11
hijackers who arrived in America from British airports. The Metropolitan Police
and MI5, the security service, have yet to establish whether any of the key
suspects stayed in the UK to carry out training and to plot the hijackings.

Britain has long been suspected of being used for fundraising and recruitment by
militant Muslim groups but if evidence emerges that cells of terrorists have
been using it as their main base camp it will raise fears about possible attacks
in the UK.

As well as the 11 hijackers, the FBI has also asked the British authorities to
trace more than 100 other people, some of whom are suspected of being involved
in planning and financing the US assaults.

Assistant Commissioner David Veness, head of the Met's specialist operations,
said yesterday: "We are pursuing reports of individuals who have passed through
the UK or left British airports." He added: "Individuals could merely have
travelled through the UK." He said the named terrorists may have stayed in the
UK but that there was "nothing to substantiate" their existence outside
Britain's airports.

Inquiries have been hampered by the hijackers' use of multiple names and stolen
identities. Additional problems have been caused by loopholes discovered in
British immigration procedures and airport computer systems which may have
allowed the terrorists to embark at Heathrow or Gatwick without the knowledge of
the authorities.

Mr Veness said there had been a huge change in the nature of the terrorist
threat and the possibility of follow-up attacks had to be considered. He added:
"Clearly, every security professional in the world will be revising the basis on
which counter-terrorism measures have been based over the last 30 years."

t Six Iraqi asylum-seekers sparked a huge security alert yesterday when they
were discovered on a lorry going into the American air base at Lakenheath,
Suffolk. The men, who are not thought to have terrorist links, hid on the lorry
in mainland Europe to smuggle themselves into the UK.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              467 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Liverpool Echo

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

BRITS LEAVE MACEDONIA

BYLINE: Nick Mead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 190 words


BRITISH troops were beginning to pull out of Macedonia today after the Nato
mission to collect weapons from Albanian rebels was hailed a success.

Operation Essential Harvest involving nearly 2,000 British troops ended
yesterday. Weaponry collected in the 30-day mission has significantly exceeded
the target set by Nato of 3,300, the Ministry of Defence said.

Troops will withdraw from Macedonia over the next few days and will be replaced
by a civilian observer mission led by the Organisation on Security and Co
-operation in Europe (OSCE).

Around 4,000 Nato troops were involved in the operation to collect arms from the
Albanian National Liberation Army.

Britain had the highest contingent with 1,860.

Meanwhile, Britain currently has 20,000 troops deployed in a war games exercise
Operation Saif Sareea in Oman, which could take part in the anticipated military
action against Afghanistan and Osama bin Laden, chief suspect in the US terror
attacks.

But the troops withdrawing from Macedonia will be returning home and will not be
joining in the training exercise in Oman, the Ministry of Defence said.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              468 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

SUZY IN THE CITY: SLOWDOWN TO SPEED UP;
 IMF WARNING FOR UK

BYLINE: Edited By Suzy Jagger

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 307 words


T HE International Monetary Fund yesterday predicted that Britain's economy is
set to slow at a rate not seen since the Gulf War.

Kenneth Rogoff, chief economist at the IMF, which bails out troubled economies
and shores up the finances of poor countries, yesterday reckoned that there
would be a "greater than expected" impact on the UK from a global slowdown.

While Rogoff's comments come just two weeks after the American terrorist attacks
, his predictions don't include the economic impact of the atrocities, which he
warned posed "more risks".

But although the IMF predicted that the UK economy will only grow by 2.0 per
cent - lower than forecast - City experts were even gloomier. Deutsche Bank
economist George Buckley predicted a bigger slowdown this year: "We think
interest rates will have to come down 0.75 per cent by the end of next spring.

"That would mean mortgage rates would have to be cut to around four per cent in
order to avert recession."

Last week, the Bank of England hacked interest rates by 0.25 per cent, copying
American, Japanese and European central banks, to try to throw a lifeline to
cash-strapped companies.

Buckley explained that as Britain's economy slows down, unemployment - currently
below one million, its lowest level since 1975 - will rise.

Yesterday, official figures showed that the terrorist attacks had knocked
consumer confidence down 0.3 per cent since the skyjacks.

"People are now far more reluctant to buy big ticket items like a new car
because they are concerned about what lies round the corner," Buckley said.

Deutsche Bank reckons the economy will grow by just 1.9 per cent this year and
1.7 per cent next.

The bank says it will pick up by the end of next year - but not unless the Bank
of England shaves rates to their lowest levels in history.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              469 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

HOON MOVES TO CALM FEARS OVER GERM WARFARE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 162 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon said there was no evidence of a direct threat to
the UK from chemical weapons attacks but urged people to be vigilant.

He spoke out after panic buying of gas masks and radiation suits by people
scared that supporters of Osama bin Laden could target Britain for biological
attack.

Mr Hoon said, "I believe a lot of the coverage of newspapers has been alarmist.

"Whilst we obviously are aware of a risk, I wish to emphasise that there is no
direct specific threat to the UK.

"Nevertheless I would urge people to be vigilant and take care and have regard
to what is happening around them."

Mr Hoon warned last week that Britain needed to "guard against" the threat of a
biological attack after the terrorist atrocities in America.

The World Health Organisation has also warned of the threat of biological
weapons and America has already grounded crop-dusting planes as the effects of
germ warfare could be devastating.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              470 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

ARMS HARVEST IN BALKANS BEATS TARGET;
 MACEDONIA: BRITISH TROOPS WILL BEGIN TO PULL OUT TODAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 253 words


AN operation involving nearly 2,000 British troops to collect weapons from
Albanian rebels in Macedonia was coming to an end yesterday.

Troops will begin to pull out of the Balkan republic today after what is being
hailed as a successful 30-day mission.

The Ministry of Defence said weaponry collected in Operation Essential Harvest
had significantly exceeded the target of 3,300 set by Nato.

Troops will withdraw from Macedonia over the next few days and will be replaced
by a civilian observer mission led by Osce, the Organisation on Security and Co
-operation in Europe.

About 4,000 Nato troops were involved in the operation to collect arms from the
Albanian National Liberation Army.

Britain had the highest contingent with 1,860.

Meanwhile, Britain has 20,000 troops deployed in a war-games exercise, Operation
Saif Sareea, in Oman, who could take part in the anticipated military action
against Afghanistan and Osama bin Laden, chief suspect in the US terror attacks.

The Ministry of Defence said the troops withdrawing from Macedonia would be
returning home and would not be joining in the training exercise in Oman.

Operation Essential Harvest followed a peace deal brokered in the Macedonian
capital, Skopje, in August after months of bloody fighting between government
forces and Albanian rebels.

The start of the operation was marred by the killing of Sapper Ian Collins, 22,
from Sheffield, when youths hurled a lump of concrete at his Land Rover just
outside Skopje.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              471 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

BRITISH HOTELS TOO DEAR, GUIDE WARNS;
 TOURISM: 'A CHOCOLATE ON THE PILLOW DOES NOT MAKE UP FOR UNCOMFORTABLE ROOMS OR
UNFRIENDLY SERVICE'

BYLINE: Ian Hunt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 521 words


HOTELS in Britain are overpriced and provide unacceptable levels of service
compared with their international counterparts, according to a guidebook
published today.

The Which? Hotel Guide 2002 says British hotels are the most expensive in Europe
at every price level, including places traditionally regarded as pricey, such as
Sweden and Switzerland. They are accused of focusing on fripperies rather than
getting the basics right.

"A chocolate on the pillow at bedtime does not make up for uncomfortable rooms,
unfriendly and inefficient service or bad food, " the guide says.

"Customers want value for money and their expectations have risen, particularly
because they travel more and compare standards abroad with what is available in
the UK.

"The popularity of cheap-and-cheerful chains such as Travel Inn or Holiday Inn
Express speaks volumes about the dearth of affordable, reasonablequality
accommodation in Britain, especially in cities."

According to the guide, the average price of a night in a luxury hotel room in
Britain is pounds 200, compared with pounds 105 in Malta and pounds 170 in
Switzerland.

A basic room costs about pounds 60 in the UK. Apart from Switzerland, a similar
room in all other European countries costs less than pounds 50.

Co-author of the guidebook Kim Winter said, "To add insult to injury bills often
include extra charges. If a hotel is going to add a 'compulsory 10pc service
charge' why not include it in the room price? One of our readers wrote to us to
say he felt hotels were pricing themselves out of tourism either by greed or the
attitude that they can charge as much as they can get away with, and in some
cases that's not far from the truth."

The authors say that if hotels are to bounce back after a poor year because of
the foot-and-mouth crisis and the recent terrorist attacks they need to urgently
rethink their policies.

Aside from the criticism, the guidebook presents a collection of the best
hotels, bed and breakfasts, pubs, farmhouses and restaurants-with-rooms.

Wales has a number of entries, including one in the Notable Newcomers section,
Sygun Fawr Country House Hotel, near Caernarfon.

Owner Chris Jennings said, "I would agree that a lot of hotels are overpriced
and miss the quality of service. Our prices are not over the top and we don't do
gimmicks. We don't even supply a television set in each room. But people keep
coming back, sometimes three or four times a year, because it is very informal
and we offer good personal service, which is often missing in the bigger
hotels."

'We can't lower standards' A STANDARD double room at the Marriott Hotel in
Swansea costs pounds 94 a night at the weekend, including breakfast.

The same accommodation at the Marriott Hotel in Cincinnati, Ohio, is available
for pounds 75.

The operations manager at the Swansea Marriott, Enfys Rees, said, "The prices
are generally lower in America because there is more competition, but there is
no question of reducing the quality of service to lower costs. Certain standards
are in place which we can't allow to fall."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CLEAR QUALITY: Working for customer satisfaction at the Swansea;
Marriott Hotel yesterday Picture: TREVOR WATERS

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              472 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Western Mail

                          September 27, 2001, Thursday

ROOM FOR IMPROVEMENT

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 88 words


HOTELS in Britain must wake up to the changing demands of customers.

No longer is it good enough to over-charge for sub-standard service.

Overseas visitors unfavourably compare British hotels to those in their own
country. And British tourists often boast of the hotel and service abroad.

The foot and moth crisis and US terrorist attack will provide hotels will a huge
challenge to maintain visitor figures.

But unless the basic requirements and standards are in place they will never be
able to survive.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              473 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 26, 2001

Hoon urges Britain to be vigilant;
 Terror in America

BYLINE: Mark Wilkinson Tim Ross ;Sherna Noah PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 163 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon said today there was no evidence of a direct threat
to the UK from chemical weapons attacks but urged people to be vigilant.

The minister spoke out after panic buying of gas masks and radiation suits by
people scared that supporters of Osama bin Laden could target Britain for
biological attack.

But Mr Hoon told BBC News: "Whilst we obviously are aware of a risk, I wish to
emphasise that there is no direct specific threat to the UK.

"Nevertheless I would urge people to be vigilant and take care and have regard
to what is happening around them."

Mr Hoon warned last week that Britain needed to guard against the threat of a
biological attack following the terrorist atrocities in America.

Asked how realistic the threat of a chemical attack was, the Defence Secretary
said last week: "It's certainly something that we have to guard against. I
believe that the appalling events have certainly caused us to think afresh."

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              474 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

COUNTDOWN TO WAR: BRITAIN BACKS UN CALL FOR CASH CLAMPDOWN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 254 words


BRITAIN is to back a United Nations resolution calling on all the countries of
the world to clampdown on the financing of terrorist groups, Chancellor Gordon
Brown said yesterday.

The move is designed to put pressure on "offshore" financial centres which are
believed to be used by terrorists such as Osama bin Laden to move and invest
their funds in secrecy.

Finance ministers of the G7 group of industrialised countries, including Mr
Brown, agreed to push for the resolution during a conference call in which they
also agreed to do everything they could to ensure that their own financial
institutions root out terrorist cash.

Mr Brown said that provisions in a Proceeds of Crime Bill to go before
Parliament soon after its return next month will require Britain's financial
institutions to report suspicious transactions.

Similar action will be taken by the other G7 countries - the US, Canada,
Germany, France, Italy and Japan - but its success will be undermined if the co
-operation of offshore centres cannot be secured.

Mr Brown refused to name the countries causing concern, but said that he had
been in contact with Britain's own offshore centres, such as the Channel Islands
and Isle of Man, to seek their co-operation.

The ministers agreed that the terror attacks on the US had set back America's
financial recovery, but said that the economies of the G7 nations remained
"strong".

They predicted "a near-term return to sustained economic growth and stable
financial markets".

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              475 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                     Belfast News Letter (Northern Ireland)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

'DON'T TALK UK INTO A RECESSION'

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 291 words


THE head of Britain's biggest business group yesterday urged people not to
"talk" Britain into recession in the wake of the US terrorist attacks.

Digby Jones, director general of the CBI, also called for Government help for
industries such as tourism which were already being hit by the global slowdown
before the tragic events in New York and Washington.

Mr Jones told the Liberal Democrat conference in Bournemouth: "We are living in
uncertain times, but you won't hear me talking about general recession.

"The stock markets around the world have tumbled and continue to be fragile but
we must resist the doom and gloom scenario as there is still so little official
data."

Mr Jones said the mood in the business community was "anxious rather than
gloomy", with uncertainties surrounding the timing and scale of the US
retaliation and the possibility of further terrorist attacks.

Many firms in the UK were seeing their share price tumbling yet the basic
fundamentals of their business remained strong.

"Some firms fear that there could be a general increase in insurance premiums.
Others fear increased energy costs should any conflict lead to an escalation in
oil prices."

Tourism had been especially hit by the "double whammy" of the foot-and-mouth
outbreak and the US attacks, said Mr Jones, adding: "Government must help in
this area. A more benign view taken by regulators to facilitate consolidation
would be a welcome start."

Mr Jones said the "fundamentals" of the UK economy remained good. "We are in
round three of a 15-round fight and the boxer is in good shape for the remaining
rounds."

He urged the Bank of England to cut interest rates again "to keep the wind in
the sails of the UK economy".

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Century Newspapers Limited

                              476 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

LETTER; POSITIVE VIEW OF ISLAM

BYLINE: Miss Shaheeda Khan

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 159 words


I AM 22-years-old, born in Britain and consider myself to be a British Muslim.
Firstly, I would like to state that my heart goes out to the victims and all
those affected by terrorist attacks in America.

It has been stated that Islamic fundamentalists were behind these horrific
attacks. Unfortunately, this has resulted in law-abiding, peaceful Asians being
attacked, both physically and verbally in the UK.

I feel that the majority of the media's inability to cover this tragedy
correctly has contributed to this by not stating that Islam is a peaceful
religion.

However, I would like to congratulate the Evening Mail because it is one of the
few newspapers that has not portrayed Islam in a negative light. The article by
Maureen Messent on September 20 was excellent. This is why I, my friends and
family consider the Mail to be fair and a great newspaper. Thank you and keep up
the good work.

Miss Shaheeda Khan,

Sparkbrook

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              477 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Daily Post (North Wales)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

BRITAIN RUNS OUT OF GAS MASKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 134 words


ARMY surplus stores throughout Britain are running out of gas masks as fears of
germ warfare grow in the wake of the US terror attacks.

One shop manager in Edinburgh said he had received more requests for gas masks
in the past 24 hours than he would normally expect in a year.

Barry Martin, 26, who runs Leith Army Stores, said he only had two gas masks in
stock before the scare and that both were snapped up yesterday morning.

Since then, he has had to deal with around 70 requests for gas masks and
Nuclear, Biological and Chemical (NBC) protective suits normally worn in war
zones by the armed forces.

He said: "Basically, every gas mask in Britain has been sold - there's
absolutely nothing left."

"It's quite scary to think people are even thinking about buying NBC suits."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: READY: Mark Bullock, of Burton-on-Trent, models a chemical warfare suit
in his Army surplus store

               Copyright 2001 The Liverpool Daily Post & Echo Ltd

                              478 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  Daily Record

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

BIN LADEN PLOTTED ATTACK ON UK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 237 words


OSAMA bin Laden has already attempted to acquire the ingredients for a chemical
or biological attack on Britain, according to a terrorism expert.

Professor Paul Wilkinson, left, of St Andrews University, said: "We know from
our research that the bin Laden network has tried to acquire these weapons from
sources in England.

"He has a lot of resources and it would not be vastly expensive for him to
acquire these weapons."

He added that chemical and biological terrorism was rare, but people in Britain
should still be aware of the risk.

Asked what kind of weapons bin Laden would use, Wilkinson replied: "We could be
talking about anthrax. There has been a spate of anthrax threats over the past
few months.

"But Sarin, the nerve gas used in the 1995 Tokyo subway attack, could also be
what bin Laden was trying to get a hold of. Sarin attacks the nervous system and
kills you if you breathe in a certain amount."

He continued: "We know that bin Laden has tried to get these weapons and we know
that his group is capable of carrying out complex terrorist campaigns over long
periods of time."

The expert in international relations and terrorism claimed that buying gas
masks was "pointless".

He said: "There needs to be an international effort to gain more knowledge of
how to deal with kind of attack.

"We need hospital teams, emergency services and police to be specially trained."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

            Copyright 2001 Scottish Daily Record & Sunday Mail Ltd.

                              479 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

Blair seeks to calm poison gas fears

BYLINE: By Roger Highfield Science Editor and George Jones

SECTION: Pg. 02

LENGTH: 544 words

DOWNING Street sought yesterday to calm public anxieties about a germ warfare or
chemical weapons attack by terrorists on British cities after the World Health
Organisation warned Western governments to be alert.

Alan Milburn, the Health Secretary, has asked the NHS to review its emergency
contingency plans in the wake of the United States terrorist attacks but Mr
Blair's spokesman has stressed that there was no evidence of a specific threat
to Britain.

Army surplus stores said yesterday that the demand for gas masks, protective
clothing and ration packs had reached unprecedented levels, with staff being
inundated with inquiries from worried members of the public.

Public anxieties were heightened by America's decision to ground the nation's
5,000 crop-dusting planes because of fears that terrorists could use them. The
ban expired yesterday.

Mohamed Atta, one of those named as a hijacker of one of the planes flown into
the World Trade Centre, reportedly studied crop-dusting aircraft before the
attack.

The World Health Organisation released the draft of a report entitled "Health
Aspects of Biological and Chemical Weapons" after concerns voiced by ministers
of health about how to deal with the threat.

But the Prime Minister's spokesman said: "There is no evidence of any specific
threat to Britain but nevertheless it is important that people stay vigilant."

He said no instruction had been given for crop-spraying aircraft to be grounded
in Britain and urged the media to be responsible in its reporting of the attacks
in the United States. "This is a serious situation, people are understandably
concerned but it is important that reporting is not too over the top," he said.

"If bin Laden's general hatred of the West is translated into 'I'll Nuke the UK'
I think people will be understandably alarmed - whereas there is no evidence of
a specific threat to Britain and there is no reason why people should not carry
out their normal, day-to-day activities in the usual way."

Dr Gro Harlem Brundtland, WHO director general, said countries needed to
strengthen their capacity to respond to the consequences of the use of
biological or chemical agents as weapons.

"We must prepare for the possibility that people are deliberately harmed with
biological or chemical agents," she told the Pan-American Health Organisation.

"During the last week we have upgraded our procedures for helping countries
respond to suspected incidents of deliberate infection."

The draft WHO report said that threats from biological or chemical agents lay
between two extremes - "relative insignificance at one end, mass destruction of
life or mass casualties at the other".

It added that "the psychological reaction of a civilian population to biological
or chemical attack is likely to be far more severe than that caused by assault
with conventional weapons".

However, the report also said: "The greater and more assured the
mass-destructive power sought for the weapon, the greater the practical
difficulties of achieving it. There are inherent technical limitations to take
into account."

Dr David Nabarro, WHO executive director, said: "Because we don't know enough
about what's involved, we are suggesting that people take the risks seriously."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              480 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

Relatives 'could take years to get over grief'

BYLINE: By Sally Pook

SECTION: Pg. 09

LENGTH: 379 words

IT COULD take years for the British relatives of those killed in the American
terror attacks to come to terms with their loss, according to bereavement
counsellors who flew to New York to help the grieving families.

Volunteers for Cruse Bereavement Care, who were on hand to meet the British
relatives as they arrived in America, said uncertainty about how their loved
ones had died and the impossibility of seeing their bodies and saying a final
goodbye had added greatly to their distress.

Yet none of those to whom they had spoken while in New York had expressed a
desire for revenge.

Colin Murray Parkes, president of Cruse, who returned to Britain this week, said
yesterday: "It has been an enormous task for everyone involved. We have all
cried with each other at some time over the past week."

His colleague, Dr Arthur O'Hara, said many of the relatives were still in shock
or denial, unable to accept that their loved ones were dead rather than simply
missing.

"Returning home and coming to terms with the finality of their loss will be very
difficult for them for weeks, months and years to come," he said.

The bereavement counsellors escorted families to the rubble of the World Trade
Centre to see the disaster scene and were on call 24 hours a day to comfort,
advise and care for the hundreds of mourners.

While seven counsellors returned yesterday a second team was already in place in
New York continuing with the care.

Dr Lyn Franchino said: "We cried plenty, we laughed a lot, we were inspired.
People there dealt with it in such a dignified way. They were exceptional and we
have all supported each other."

Some of the families were comforted by the American Ambassador, William Farish,
during a ceremony at the Roosevelt Memorial in Grosvenor Square, London,
yesterday. He said their courage was an example of how strong people could be.

Mr Farish said: "They are just off the plane from New York; they have all lost
sons, daughters and relatives; words can't describe what these terrific, brave
families have gone through."

As relatives wept during the ceremony, which was attended by Tessa Jowell, the
Culture Secretary, he added: "The hate-filled men who committed these acts
debased mankind."
[PS]News: [ES]

War on terrorism:

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              481 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

ID cards 'would not stop the terrorists'

BYLINE: Reports by Sarah Womack and Benedict Brogan

SECTION: Pg. 16

LENGTH: 219 words

COMPULSORY identity cards would have done nothing to prevent the terrorist
attacks on New York and Washington, and could leave ethnic minorities facing
revived "sus laws", Charles Kennedy warned yesterday.

The Liberal Democrat leader said his party would oppose attempts to impose
identity documents, but said he did not believe that Tony Blair would introduce
them.

Speaking to students in Bournemouth, Mr Kennedy said he had "two levels" of
objections to the cards - moral and practical. He believed it could allow people
from ethnic minorities to be singled out by the police in a return of the "sus
laws", the stop-and-search powers that opponents claimed were used predominantly
against blacks.

He added: "If Britain or America had ID cards it would not have done anything to
stop what the head-cases did."

He said terrorists who could forge passports would have no difficulty faking ID
cards, adding: "It's not going to make any worthwhile contribution to the
situation we are facing."

Mr Kennedy, who spoke to the Prime Minister yesterday, said Mr Blair was
unlikely to legislate for ID cards, despite reports that the Home Office was
considering plans to introduce them. "The strong impression I got is that this
is not a route we are going to go down," he said.
[PS]News: [ES]

Politics:

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              482 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 26, 2001

Freedom versus security Freedom versus security

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 709 words


THE SURVEY WE carry today, examining antiterrorist measures planned by other
European nations in the wake of the attacks on America reveal significant
differences among the governments whom President Bush hopes to meld into his
coalition. While France and Germany are taking far-reaching steps to combat
terrorist attacks from within and without their borders, smaller nations - the
Dutch, Belgians, Swiss and Scandinavians - seem content with their present
security arrangements, complacent in the belief that they are less likely
targets (in the case of the Swiss, no doubt, because no terrorist wants to
compromise access to his own secret bank account).

Germany, meanwhile, is cleaning up bunkers beneath Berlin which can hold 27,000
people in a terrorist emergency, implementing rigorous security measures at its
airports, and hastening legislation which will give police full access to the
databases of religious organisations. France has taken even more drastic
measures, putting the state on a national emergency footing, with troops and
armed riot police protecting public buildings, fighter planes ready to scramble
in two minutes, and exhaustive checks and body searches, backed up by the threat
of immediate arrest for anyone not carrying their identity card. All governments
face a difficult task, in reconciling responsible security measures with the
avoidance of public panic.

For instance, at some point in most of our lifetimes a terrorist anthrax attack
is conceivable, but it is unlikely that even the most militant group yet possess
the science for such an operation.

As for our own country, the Government is making tough and welcome noises, above
all about taking steps to see that open advocates of violence suffer criminal
penalties. The civil liberties lobby is expressing concern, but the public mood
undoubtedly favours firmer action.

In striking the balance between providing sanctuary for the oppressed and
offering a red carpet to extremists, Britain has allowed the balance to tilt too
far in favour of unwelcome guests. As George Walden wrote on Monday, the French
never waver in saying to migrants: "If you want to come here, you should know
that this is how we do things in France, and that's that". In Britain, we have
been too ready to move the goalposts of our own society to suit even the
dottiest of immigrant interests. There is no question now of shutting the doors,
but the public expects the Government to take much tougher action to ensure that
those who profess to hate or despise our values are denied the chance to come
and share them.

Reality bites

THE IRRELEVANCE OF the Liberal-Democrat conference to what is on most people's
minds has obscured a policy change that is worthy of note. The Lib-Dems appear
to be thinking about a reform of the NHS on the French, insurance-based model.
This makes them the first political party to acknowledge the obvious, namely
that there is no future for an NHS which fools people into believing that the
most up-to-date medical treatment can be instantly available to everyone free,
irrespective of income. In its small way this is a great victory for common
sense, a quality for which the Lib-Dems have not been renowned in the past. If
Mr Charles Kennedy wants to be taken as a serious political leader, rather than
merely the nicest, he must now subject other policies to the reality test. The
Lib-Dems' education policies are the silliest and most irresponsible of any
political party. To lead the public to believe that a penny or two on income tax
would put things right, when as Labour has finally recognised much of the
difficulty about standards has little to do with cash, is demagogy directed at
softer minds.

Their enthusiasm for all things European and for instant entry to the euro has a
certain softness about it too, to the extent that it seeks to appeal to
goody-goody feelings, while ignoring the natural aversion of people who could
not remotely be described as Europhobes to undue centralisation.

If the Lib-Dems want to become part of the real political world, they must
recognise that government is not about promising people the impossible, and
launch a fundamental review of their policies with that in mind.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              483 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 26, 2001

IMF cuts back forecasts for British growth

BYLINE: Jane Padgham

SECTION: Pg. 37

LENGTH: 205 words


THE International Monetary Fund today slashed its forecasts for Britain's
economy but still left it at the top of the growth league for the world's
developed countries.

The fund now expects Britain's economy to expand by 2% this year, down sharply
from the 2.6% predicted in May and lower than Chancellor Gordon Brown's Budget
forecast of between 2.25% and 2.75%.

Only France and Canada are expected to match Britain's pace of expansion this
year, with all other G7 countries trailing behind.

Next year, growth is seen accelerating to 2.4%, much lower than the 2.8%
pencilled in in May.

Today's forecasts do not take account of the effects of the 11 September
terrorist attacks on the US, which the IMF warned will "add to the already
significant downside risks both in the US and elsewhere".

Rather, the downgrades reflect the "greater-than-expected" impact of the global
slowdown.

The fund hedged its bets on whether further interest rate cuts from the Bank of
England were warranted.

The US economy is seen growing by 1.3% this year, and although the IMF said the
terrorist attacks had heightened the risk of slower growth, it added that it was
too early to assess their economic consequences.


LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              484 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                               September 26, 2001

HIGH FLYER OF THE DAY; PRIDE IS NOTHING FOR A NATION TO BE ASHAMED OF

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 149 words


WHY did we have to cancel the singing of Land of Hope and Glory for the last
night of the Proms?

Hundreds of Britons were killed two weeks ago and yet it seems as if only
American patriotism is acceptable.

Some people were even suggesting American flags should be displayed in office
windows and in people's houses as a show of solidarity.

We should be able to feel pride in our nation without shame. Perhaps we feel
guilty about the many wrongs which were committed by Britain during the years of
the British Empire and we have forgotten about the many advances that we brought
to the world, particularly during the industrial revolution.

Or perhaps the tensions between the different parts of the United Kingdom have
left us feeling anything but united. In the aftermath of the terrorist attacks
we need to be able to rediscover pride in ourselves.

L Nicholson, Perth

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2001 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              485 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 2001

On the brink of war: Guardian Unlimited: guardian.co.uk/ terrorism

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 9

LENGTH: 240 words


On the Guardian network today:

* Timeline

A day-by-day guide to events since the September 11 attack on America with links
to articles from our archive

guardian.co.uk/terrorism

* Interactive guides

Tracing the suspects back to Bin Laden; military build-up and possible targets;
and who stands where among Afghanistan's neighbours

guardian.co.uk/interactive

* Audio

Maggie O'Kane reports from Peshawar on the refugee crisis and regional unrest

guardian.co.uk/audio

* Talk about it

Should Britain introduce ID cards? How is Jack Straw handling his Middle East
mission? Have your say on the web's liveliest talkboards

guardian.co.uk/talk

* Weblog

The best journalism on the crisis from around the web

guardian.co.uk/weblog

* Informer

Subscribe to our free email service for a daily round-up of key developments

guardian.co.uk/informer

* Britain's response

Full text of key speeches by UK political leaders and analysis of possible
security measures

guardian.co.uk/politics

* Travel information

Flight services that are resuming, and those still affected by events in America

guardian.co.uk/travel

* Plus

Special reports providing in-depth, up-to-the-minute coverage and archived
articles on the terrorism crisis, the attack on the US, Afghanistan, Pakistan
and the role of the Israeli-Palestinian conflict

guardian.co.uk/ specialreports

guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              486 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 26, 2001

On the brink of war: Protect and survive: With the possibility of terrorist
attacks in Britain looming large, Esther Addley seeks advice on what to do in
the event of a serious emergency - and finds a nation woefully unprepared

BYLINE: Esther Addley

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 948 words


The woman at ukonline can't help me. I had thought the "open government" website
might be a reasonable first port of call to find out what was going on, but
there's nothing on the site, and the helpline operator doesn't know anything
about it. I'd like some advice on imminent biological attack, I say. "If you
have a query you can tell me, and I'll pass it on to the government," she says.
"You should get an emailed response within five working days."

I try the Ministry of Defence. They send me to the Home Office, who suggest the
Cabinet Office. The man there says there's no advice, because there has been no
threat. "Normally local authorities have responsibility for this kind of thing."
But however efficient they are at recycling, Tower Hamlets council doesn't seem
to have grasped the situation. "Please hold, I'll put you through!" the woman on
the switchboard says cheerily. Two minutes later she's back. "Em, I know I'm
meant to put you through to a department, but I don't really know what you mean.
What are biological weapons?" I explain I'm worried about the terrorist threat
and want to know what I should do. I get an electronic voice message: "Hello! We
are unable to answer right now. If you would like to send a fax, please do so
after the beep."

Those who have been wondering whether or not to panic about a biological or
chemical attack on the UK can now rest assured. They should. Or so the World
Health Organisation seemed to suggest yesterday, when it urged governments to
speed up their emergency planning against such assaults. "Proper surveillance
and a quick, coordinated response are vital if any deliberate use of agents such
as anthrax or smallpox are to be contained before they infect large numbers of
people," the organisation said, posting on its website extensive details of
exactly what the weapons can do to the body.

Just two weeks ago the notion that our water might be contaminated, or that
someone could drop a fistful of anthrax from the top of Canary Wharf, was
preposterous. But that was before the US grounded crop-spraying planes in case
they were used to drop noxious chemicals over cities, and rumours about
terrorists releasing a suspicious package into a US reservoir. Can it really be
time to head to Tesco to stock up on tinned peaches? Or at the very least, a gas
mask?

Easier said than done, it transpires. A little over two weeks ago, Springfields
Army Stores' main clients were were executives going paintballing, fishermen and
parents buying outfits for their kids. But yesterday, manager Tony Bullock was
forced to put a brief notice on its website to relieve some of the demand: "If
you are concerned about possible terrorist attacks and want some detailed
information about how to use NBC suits and respirators, click here."

The Staffordshire company has sold 1,000 "NBC" (nuclear, biological, chemical)
suits and gas masks in just over a week, and could have sold more if his
suppliers had been able to keep up with demand. Bullock has no more British or
Russian masks left, he says; the Belgian ones don't fit in an airtight seal over
the British suits, but people are buying them anyway.

There doesn't appear to be a gas mask anywhere in London either; I try three
suppliers, all of whom have sold out. Not that they would be much use in a
biological attack in any case. The whole kit - trousers, jacket, overshoes,
hood, two pairs of gloves, face mask, respirator and haversack - would need to
be scrambled on, tucked in and airtight within 30 seconds. That takes practice,
and prob ably assistance from someone else. But the moment you open the packets,
the garments are useless for future use. In other words, as Bullock admits, you
really need to buy two of everything.

Maybe we should just retreat underground. "In Kent, at least, there are the
Chislehurst caves, which have something like 21 miles of underground tunnels,"
says Ian Johnston- Bryden, a security consultant for specialists Firetrench. "Or
in places like Norwich, there are extensive underground chalk caves that could
be used. Though they would need a lot of work, as they do have problems with
poisonous gases." There are still some nuclear bunkers around, he says, though
most have been stripped of anything that made them safe against nuclear attack.

I try Dominic Hawkin, who manages the Bunker, a cold-war shelter in Kent that
claims to be "the most physically secure non- governmental site on earth for
data storage". In theory, it probably could accommodate a couple of hundred
people for six months in the event of attack, he says. But the site is now used
for company data hosting, and is not equipped to take people. The companies that
used to make back-garden air raid shelters in the 70s stopped it long ago, says
Johnston-Bryden. He suggests I try boat repairers, who might be able to knock me
up a fibreglass drum that I could bury in the back garden. With an internet
connection it might be quite comfortable, he suggests.

So while the WHO and common sense suggest there is reason to be concerned about
a possible attack, I haven't managed to come up with any helpful advice
whatsoever. I'm reduced to looking on the internet, the last refuge of the
paranoid. Oddly, even here there seems to be little talk of chemical warfare
relating to the World Trade Centre attacks. I stumble across a site run by an
enthusiastic environmental pessimist - "where survivalism rocks!" - but it
hasn't been updated since December 1999. Perhaps he is still holed up in a
Norwegian cave somewhere, not daring to come out in case the millennium bug
strikes. God alone knows whether we should be joining him.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              487 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: POLICE - STEVENS SAYS ATTACK WAS 'EVIL IN ITS PUREST FORM'

BYLINE: Sam Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 164 words


BRITAIN'S MOST senior police officer branded the terror attack on America "evil
in its purest form" last night and urged Christians to take up the fight against
the perpetrators.

Sir John Stevens, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, was speaking at a prayer
meeting at Westminster Chapel in London. The event, called For London, was
organised before the New York and Washington atrocities by the Evangelical
Alliance to bring Christians together to pray for London's communities.

Sir John told the congregation: "Two weeks ago we saw evil in its most brutal
form. It defied anything that we have seen for some time.

"It is recognised that 6,400 people died in those buildings and these
perpetrators have the arrogance to say they did it in the name of religion, but
it is right that it is evil in its purest form.

"As Christians we will take up the banner, it will be a crusade against evil,"
he said. "By fighting evil, that is the best way we can triumph."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2001 Independent Print Ltd

                              488 of 500 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

WAR ON TERROR: SECURITY THREAT: FEARING THE WORST;
 TERROR CELL POISON TRAINING OALERT OVER GERM ATTACK ONHS CHECKS ON VACCINES

BYLINE: Oonagh Blackman And Mark Ellis, Foreign Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 686 words

HIGHLIGHT: NIGHTMARE SCENARIO: Paramedics in Liverpool training for a chemical
or biological attack


BRITAIN was last night speeding up preparations to combat the threat of chemical
or biological attacks.

Health Secretary Alan Milburn has ordered an urgent review of contingency plans,
Exercise Misty Scene, following a warning from the World Health Organisation.

He will visit the United States in the next two weeks for talks.

Mr Milburn has already asked the NHS to update emergency planning in areas such
as vaccine stocks.

A source close to the minister said: "We are getting ready. It is clear that the
nature of the threat is very real."

Last night it emerged that terror suspects in the USA had bought chemical
transportation licences for as little as pounds 70.

And terrorists trained by Osama bin Laden in using poison gas are believed to be
at large in America.

In Britain Mr Milburn has already chaired a series of meetings of the
Contingency Planning Group at the Health Ministry in Whitehall with NHS Chief
Executive Nigel Crisp.

But a former Cabinet Minister said there are concerns that the contingency plan
needs to be strengthened.

The ex-minister said: "Tony Blair has been asking questions about this since the
attack and there are concerns about some areas of contingency planning like
stocks of vaccine.

"But heads are being knocked together and the procedures are being reviewed in
the light of the heightened threat."

Downing Street urged the public not to panic over fears of a terrorist attack.
But it warned people to be vigilant.

The Prime Minister's official spokesman said: "There is no evidence of a
specific threat to the UK.

"There is no reason why people should not carry out their normal day-to-day
activities in the usual way."

Earlier, the World Health Organisation said it was essential the threat of
chemical or biological attacks was not underestimated.

In a blueprint rushed out three months early, WHO said yesterday: "There is
concern that the possibility of biological or chemical agents being deliberately
released has not been given sufficient attention.

"For public health authorities the matter is one of relative priority." David
Nabarro, WHO's executive director, said: '"We hope that we are not being
alarmist.

"Several countries have contacted WHO over the last few days just wanting to
reassure themselves about the kind of precautions they need to take in case
there was any kind of deliberate use of biological agents."

Just 5lbs of anthrax spores, easily released by aerosol, can kill 300,000 people
- half the population of a city the size of Glasgow.

The WHO report, Health Aspects of Biological and Chemical Weapons, tells
governments how to detect germ attacks and gives a list of international
organisations for emergency assistance.

WHO director-general Dr Gro Harlem Brundtland said in Washington: "Proper
surveillance and a quick co-ordinated response are vital if any deliberate use
of agents such as anthrax or smallpox are to be contained before they infect
large numbers of people."

Terrorists trained to use poison gas are at large in the United States, it was
feared last night.

Investigators quizzing Ahmed Ressam, a member of the Algerian-based Armed
Islamic Group, have discovered his cell was planning to attack Los Angeles
airport and other high profile targets.

And he revealed he had been trained at an Afghan camp to feed poison gas through
air vents of office buildings.

Other members of his cell were never traced and the FBI fear they are still in
the US. Meanwhile US Attorney General John Ashcroft, said terror suspects had
obtained licences to transport chemicals.

And he said the FBI had information which "indicates a potential for additional
terrorist incidents".

It comes after news that hijacker Mohamed Atta had asked officials how to get a
government loan to buy a crop-dusting plane. All spray planes have been grounded
in the US.

He was also among a group of men who visited a crop-spraying company asking
questions.

Another suspect had downloaded information about crop-dusting and pesticides
from the internet, said Mr Ashcroft.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2001 MGN Ltd.

                              489 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                South Wales Echo

                         September 26, 2001, Wednesday

DON'T PANIC - STAY CALM

SECTION: LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 205 words


DURING the last few days most of us have heard - and thought about - biological
and chemical terror attacks far more often than we would like.

There has been discussion of which biochemical materials could be used by Osama
bin Laden and his confederates, and much speculation on which British landmarks
could represent targets.

An emergency response group was today meeting in South Wales to discuss defence
in the wake of the terror attacks in the US just over a fortnight ago.

It is a special meeting but the group stresses there is nothing to worry about.

Their over-riding message is: "Don't panic!"

People across Britain are talking about whether towns, cities and industrial
areas of their region could be under threat. There is no reason why we in South
Wales should be any different. However, we've been here before, particularly
during the Gulf War a decade ago.

The fear in people's minds is generally massively disproportionate to the
genuine likelihood of attack. But it is this fear that helps put the terror in
terrorist.

We must be aware - as an ally of America - of the possibility of attacks of our
land. But when this starts affecting our lives, the terrorists have already won.

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2001 Western Mail and Echo Ltd

                              490 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                        Western Morning News (Plymouth)

                               September 26, 2001

Don't talk the UK into slump, says CBI chief
 US recession has had little impact on most British businesses so far claims
industry leader

SECTION: AGENCY: PA, Pg.20

LENGTH: 635 words


Alan Jones

THE head of Britain's biggest business group yesterday urged people not to
"talk" Britain into recession in the wake of the US terrorist attacks.

Digby Jones, director general of the CBI also called for Government help for
industries such as tourism which were already being hit by the global slowdown
before the tragic events in New York and Washington.

Mr Jones told the Liberal Democrat conference in Bournemouth: "We are living in
uncertain times, but you won't hear me talking about general recession.

"The stock markets around the world have tumbled and continue to be fragile but
we must resist the doom and gloom scenario as there is still so little official
data."

Mr Jones said the mood in the business community was "anxious rather than
gloomy", with uncertainties surrounding the timing and scale of the US
retaliation and the possibility of further terrorist attacks.

"With certain obvious exceptions in specific sectors, companies are reporting
that the direct impact on activity has so far been very limited."

Mr Jones said many firms in the UK were seeing their share price tumbling yet
the basic fundamentals of their business remained strong.

"Some firms fear that there could be a general increase in insurance premiums.
Others fear increased energy costs should any conflict lead to an escalation in
oil prices."

Tourism had been especially hit by the "double whammy" of the foot-and-mouth
outbreak and the US attacks, said Mr Jones, adding: "Government must help in
this area. A more benign view taken by regulators to facilitate consolidation
would be a welcome start."

Mr Jones said the "fundamentals" of the UK economy remained good. "We are in
round three of a 15 round fight and the boxer is in good shape for the remaining
rounds."

Of the American terrorist atrocity, he vowed: "Evil isn't going to win this one,
and the way to do that is by carrying on."

Mr Jones urged the Bank of England to cut interest rates again "to keep the wind
in the sails of the UK economy". The Government must not be "knocked off course
from its domestic agenda.

"It has to be business as usual in getting things done in the UK. There is a
window of opportunity to deliver on public services and the private sector does
have a role to play."

Mr Jones, the first CBI director general to speak at a party conference, was
given a standing ovation.

Meanwhile Liberal Democrat frontbench peers came under serious pressure from
party members to quit jobs as political lobbyists last night.

Delegates at the party's conference gave an emphatic approval to a motion
calling for a ban on Parliamentarians working for registered professional
lobbying companies.

At least one of Charles Kennedy's frontbench team is thought to be affected by
the move.

Despite appeals by several peers to reject the proposals, they backed claims
that the jobs created a serious conflict of interest.

Andy Myles, a lobbyist himself, said the roles of decision maker and those
trying to influence decisions had to be kept separate.

The public's faith in politicians was already at a low ebb and would drop
further if there was any hint of corruption.

"We have to have a clear, open transparent division between lobbyists and being
a Parliamentarian," he said.

Critics of the motion, which calls on the Government to ban the practice and
urges Liberal Democrats to leave their lobbying jobs within two years, said it
was inconsistent.

They claimed the move was unnecessary as peers already had to declare their
interests in a public register and sign up to a code of conduct drawn up by the
sleaze-busting Neill Committee. Peers had done nothing wrong and should be free
to do the jobs they wanted, they argued.

UPBEAT: Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy, left, and the CBI's Digby Jones

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

                      Copyright 2001 Western Morning News

                              491 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              Western Daily Press

                               September 26, 2001

EVERYONE IS READY FOR WAR;
 Blair warns the Taliban: We'll kick you out of power

BYLINE: Matthew George

SECTION: News, Pg.1/ 2

LENGTH: 638 words


THEY are just children - but even the innocent have been caught up in the hatred
that has brought the world to the brink of war.

These two Pakistani youngsters, whojoined their father in protests against the
West with their toy guns, are tragic proof of the way militants twist the minds
of children.

And last night in pictures that were seen across the globe they unwittingly
became symbols of the expected conflict to come.

The writing on their headbands says Osama bin Laden. It is unlikely either of
them is old enough to read it or understand just what that name means.

Although they are too young to fight in the coming battle between the West and
the terrorists and their supporters in Afghanistan, they could be in the
frontline next time if the allies fail to curb the terror campaign.

Meanwhile, Tony Blair made his toughest comments yet, promising Taliban leaders
military action if they ignore an ultimatum to hand over the prime suspect
behind the U.S. atrocities.

He made it clear the aims of the war against international terrorism - Operation
Enduring Freedom - will include the removal of the Taliban from power, after a
bin Laden aide warned of a holy war against Americans and Jews.

The effort had originally been dubbed Operation Infinite Justice, but Moslems
had pointed out it was offensive to their religion as only Allah can offer
infinite justice.

U.S. Defence Secretary Donald Rumsfeld unveiled the new name and said it was a
warning that the campaign was likely to be long drawn out.

"Enduring suggests that it is not a quick fix, " he said. "It is not that way.
It is not going to be over in five minutes or five months. It is going to take
years, I suspect."

Sales of gas masks are soaring in Britain amid fears of chemical warfare attacks
by the terrorists who devastated the World Trade Centre and the Pentagon.

And Health Secretary Alan Milburn ordered the NHS to check its emergency
contingency plans, to make sure hospitals can cope with large numbers of
casualties among British troops - or among UK citizens after new terror attacks.

And on a day of feverish diplomatic activity, Britain appeared to defuse a major
row with Israel, while Saudi Arabia cut all ties with Afghanistan, leaving the
Taliban almost isolated.

Britain also pledged help for the Afghan refugees flooding into neighbouring
Pakistan, while Chancellor Gordon Brown ordered banks to join the battle to cut
off funds to bin Laden's al Qaida organisation.

The war of words between Mr Blair and bin Laden saw the Prime Minister issue his
blunt ultimatum in a televised address from Downing Street. He went further than
President George W Bush when he said: "Military conflict there will be, unless
the Taliban change and respond to the ultimatum given to them."

If the fundamentalist regime refused to stop shielding multimillionaire bin
Laden, then "our enemy's friend becomes an enemy too".

However there appeared to be no real chance of the Taliban making what would be
an astonishing U-turn, and al Qaida raised the stakes with a provocative new
call to arms. "Wherever there are Americans and Jews, they will be targeted, "
warned the organisation's chief military commander, Naseer Ahmed Mujahed.

"We can defend ourselves. The holy warriors are fully prepared.

Wherever there are Moslems, they should prepare for jihad (holy war), and by the
grace of God, the victory will be Islam's."

Saudi Arabia's ambassador to Britain yesterday branded Osama bin Laden "a human
monster" and said he would not be sorry to see Afghanistan's Taliban regime
toppled.

But Ghazi Al Gosaibi voiced concern that the hunt for the perpetrators of the
American terror attacks might become a war of the West against Islam, which he
warned would destabilise the whole world.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              492 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                 Bath Chronicle

                               September 25, 2001

Straw takes fight against terrorism to Tehran

BYLINE: John Deane PA News

SECTION: News, Pg.6

LENGTH: 237 words


FOREIGN Secretary Jack Straw arrived in the Iranian capital Tehran early today,
taking the effort to build an international coalition against terrorism to the
home of Islamic fundamentalism.

Mr Straw concluded the first leg of his four-day tour of the Middle East by
becoming the first British foreign secretary to visit Iran since the 1979
Islamic Revolution.

Although Iran is still viewed with suspicion by many in the United States, its
"moderate" president Mohammad Khatami has sought better relations with the West
in recent years, and condemned the September 11 terror attacks on America.

Even before it had got to that stance on the attacks on New York, Washington and
Pennsylvania, Iran had been enjoying a thaw in relations with Britain, notably
since its 1998 move to distance itself from the notorious Fatwa on the author
Salman Rushdie.

That move, which was followed by the restoration of full diplomatic ties between
the two countries, helped draw a line under two decades of mutual distrust and
hostility.

Mr Straw believes that Iran is pivotal to fostering stability in the region - a
top priority for the West as it prepares for military action against
neighbouring Afghanistan, whose Taliban leadership stands accused of sheltering
the prime suspect in the attacks, Saudi dissident Osama bin Laden.

Mr Straw said: "It is very important that we build a political consensus."

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              493 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                            Birmingham Evening Mail

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

WAR ON TERROR: FRESH PLEA FOR CALM AS COMMONS IS RECALLED

BYLINE: Shaun Connolly Political Editor CUT SHORT: Tony Blair drastically cut
the Labour conference

SECTION: Pg. 3

LENGTH: 263 words


DOWNING STREET today moved to calm fears of an imminent terror attack on the UK
as it confirmed an emergency recall of the Commons next week.

The action heightened speculation of an Anglo-American blitz of terror bases in
Afghanistan, perhaps as early as this weekend.

Premier Tony Blair drastically cut the Labour conference, due to start Sunday,
from five days to two.

MPs will be back in Parliament towards the end of next week - or earlier 'should
events dictate' - to debate any military action and the proposed tightening of
security laws in the wake of the terrorist outrages in New York and Washington.

Mr Blair's spokesman said: 'There is no evidence of a specific threat to the UK
and there is no reason why people shouldn't carry out their usual day to day
business in the usual way.'

Casualties

He added that a recall of parliament should 'not be ruled out before next week,
should events dictate.'

Britain currently has a strike force of 20,000 in the Persian Gulf and Ministers
have already warned of heavy UK casualties in an attack on warlord Osama bin
Laden and his backers in the Afghan Taliban regime.

The World Health Organisation has warned governments to be alert to the risk of
chemical or biological attacks, it emerged today.

The organisation called on governments to speed up their preparations for
possible germ warfare attacks in the wake of the terror attacks on the US.

America has already grounded crop-dusting planes over fears they could be used
by terrorists to spread chemical or biological agents.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

               Copyright 2001 Midland Independent Newspapers plc

                              494 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                                THE BRISTOL POST

                               September 25, 2001

STEP BACK IN TIME;
 Rush to buy gas masks - and barrage balloons may return

BYLINE: STEVE GRANT

SECTION: News, Pg.1

LENGTH: 523 words


BRISTOL is looking to the past to try to find defences to the modern evil of
international terrorism.

Buyers have cleared a city store of gas masks fearing follow-up terrorist
attacks on Britain in the aftermath of the atrocities in America.

And Bedminster-based Cameron Balloons is hurriedly working on plans for a modern
version of the Second World War's barrage balloons in a bid to prevent airborne
strikes.

Marcus Pinson, owner of Marcruss Army Surplus and Accessories in Hotwells, says
he has been swamped by people calling his shop, desperate to track down the
protective gas masks.

He has none left after selling 70 in just over a week - more than he would
normally sell in an entire year.

There has also been a run on other military items, including chemical warfare
suits, designed to protect the wearer in the event of a gas attack, and army
food rations.

Sales of British Army S10 gas masks, costing 19.99, have hit a peak not seen
since the Gulf War, said Mr Pinson.

"I've phoned my wholesale supplier in London and they have sold out, too, " he
said.

"It's impossible to get hold of a single gas mask anywhere in London or the
south of England.

"Virtually every phone call I've had today has been from someone asking about
gas masks.

People are obviously panic-buying because they are concerned about the potential
terrorist threat.

"It's a re-run of the Gulf War 10 years ago. I sold 100 gas masks then because
people were worried about Saddam using chemical weapons."

Meanwhile, Cameron Balloons managing director Don Cameron believes that 21st
century versions of barrage balloons could act as effective low-cost deterrents
against airborne attacks similar to those in New York and Washington.

It is the "fence" of suspension cables below the tethered "blimps" that deter
aircraft rather than the balloons themselves.

The height at which the balloons operate make it very difficult for pilots to
aim for a target without risking collision with a cable.

Mr Cameron said: "I'm not suggesting that all cities should be encircled by
blimps, but if you need to defend a likely terrorist target on a short-term
basis - such as a building being used to host a conference of heads-of-state, or
a temporary military encampment - then the barrage balloon has a wellproven
pedigree."

Installing tethered blimps as a short-term measure would cost a fraction of the
amount needed to provide protection using batteries of Patriot or similar
ground-to-air missiles.

Cameron Balloons already market the small promotional blimps, but are now
designing a much larger craft reminiscent of the ungainly barrage balloons that
were a common sight above many British cities in the Second World War.

Cameron Balloons also has plans to develop a packaged barrage balloon system
that would remain passive until instructed by remote command to inflate and
self-deploy.

The World Health Organisation today warned governments to be alert to the risk
of chemical or biological attacks.

The organisation said preparations for possible germ warfare attacks should be
speeded up.

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2001 Bristol United Press

                              495 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

JACK STRAW IN HISTORIC VISIT TO TEHRAN ISLAMIC TIES: Jack Straw with Mohammad
Reisi, of the Iranian; Foreign Ministry, today

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 286 words


FOREIGN SECRETARY Jack Straw arrived in the Iranian capital of Tehran early
today, taking the effort to build an international coalition against terrorism
to the home of Islamic fundamentalism.

Mr Straw concluded the first leg of his four-day tour of the Middle East by
becoming the first British Foreign Secretary to visit Iran since the 1979
Islamic revolution.

Although Iran is still viewed with suspicion by many in the United States, its
"moderate" president Mohammad Khatami has sought better relations with the West
in recent years and condemned the September 11 terror attacks on America.

Even before that, Iran had been enjoying a thaw in relations with Britain,
notably since its 1998 move to distance itself from the notorious Fatwa on the
author Salman Rushdie.

That move was followed by the restoration of full diplomatic ties between the
two countries.

Interviewed on his RAF plane during the flight Jordan to Tehran, Mr Straw
explained: "It is very important that we build a political consensus
internationally against the terrorism that produced the terrible atrocity and
the deaths in the United States on the September 11.

"Iran knows better than any other nation in the world just how deadly is the
consequence of the Taliban and Osama bin Laden and his Al-Qaeda organisation."

Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon has declined to meet Mr Straw, according to
the BBC Radio 4 Today programme.

The decision was reportedly linked to an article written by the Foreign
Secretary in an Iranian newspaper in which he reportedly said one of the factors
that helped breed terrorism was the anger many people in the region felt towards
events over the years in Palestine.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              496 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                           Coventry Evening Telegraph

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

BUSINESS LIFE: MANUFACTURING SECTOR ASSURED OF SOLID FUTURE

BYLINE: Colin Lewis Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 347 words


MANUFACTURING will continue to play a major, if smaller, part in Coventry and
Warwickshire's economic future, despite the deepening uncertainty caused by
dramatic world events.

This was the overriding theme of yesterday's 2010 conference held in the city to
mark the relaunch of Coventry and Warwickshire Chamber of Commerce.

Despite widespread doubts about global recession and the economic effects of the
terrorist attack in America, the mood locally was still optimistic.

Carl Pearson, assistant director (regeneration) with Coventry City Council, told
the conference that although Coventry's manufacturing employment had fallen by
40 per cent in the past 15 years, it was still much higher than the UK average
and continued to play a leading role.

Unemployment had also fallen dramatically in the past eight years and was now
lower than in London, he said. But the real growth was in the service sector, an
increase of 80 per cent in the same period.

Mr Pearson added that future challenges would be to overcome transport problems,
and to drive up the economy of "under- performing" north Coventry and north
Warwickshire, particularly Nuneaton and Bedworth.

His view was echoed by John Deegan, director of planning, transport and economic
strategy for Warwickshire County Council. He said that although south
Warwickshire had the fastest growing gross domestic product in Britain, there
were still pockets of high unemployment which needed attention.

HSBC chief economist Dennis Turner said Britain's economy was in better shape
than it had ever been.

When the last world economic crisis struck in 1973, Britain's was probably the
weakest economy in Europe, but today, it was the strongest in Europe, he said.

Jaguar's operations manager, Graeme McDonald, said the area's manufacturing
industry "definitely" had a future.

He said Jaguar was aiming for 20 per cent annual growth over the next few years,
but he warned of difficulties created by the sterling/euro exchange rate and the
shift of component manufacture to eastern Europe.

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                   Copyright 2001 Coventry Newspapers Limited

                              497 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          September 25, 2001, Tuesday

Kennedy backs Blair but also calls for caution

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 12

LENGTH: 705 words

CHARLES Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, gave Tony Blair conditional
backing yesterday for sending British troops into action in Afghanistan
alongside the Americans.

Although he promised to join the Prime Minister in a common resolve to "root out
terrorism wherever it may be", Mr Kennedy said Britain could not issue a "blank
cheque" to the United States.

Mr Kennedy sounded a note of caution over British involvement in American-led
action after delegates at the Liberal Democrat conference in Bournemouth voiced
concern over likely civilian casualties from retaliatory military strikes at
Afghanistan.

Mr Kennedy said he had spoken to Mr Blair that morning and fully backed the
Prime Minister's response so far.

He said they had agreed on the need to balance legislation with the interests of
domestic civil rights, vigilance against attempts to attack ethnic communities,
and no ruling out of a further recall of Parliament, if events required it.

But while Mr Blair was right to declare that Britain would stand "shoulder to
shoulder" with America, its role was also to be a "candid friend" in such
circumstances.

"Where military response is concerned, we have a duty and a responsibility to
ensure that where our armed forces are involved, the risks to them are quantifed
and minimised. We cannot shelve or abandon that requirement. That means
supporting American actions only in the knowledge that Britain will be involved
in all planning and risk assessment," Mr Kennedy said.

There was a case for American military action, but with feelings understandably
running high, the US risked going too far. "That's where a candid friend comes
in. Standing shoulder to shoulder, but always there, for the occasional
cautionary tap on the shoulder."

Earlier, Menzies Campbell, the party's foreign affairs spokesman, said military
action in response to the terrorist attacks on New York and Washington must be
based on "justice not revenge". He stressed that any allied action should be
"precise and proportionate to the need" and consistent with international law.

But there was only muted applause when he said a military response based on
those principles was justified and the UK should make forces available for that
purpose.

Mr Campbell made clear that the public should expect there to be casualties
among British troops. "I want you to understand that in committing forces in
this way, we are accepting the risk of casualties.

"Easy to say in the autumn calm of a seaside town; more difficult to explain to
grieving relations in the dawn at RAF Lyneham," said Mr Campbell.

He cautioned critics of military action not to resort to "crude
anti-Americanism". No grievance, either real or perceived, justified such
slaughter of human life in the United States.

"The cause of this attack was not American foreign policy but an amoral
disregard for human life."

The debate revealed deep anxieties among delegates about the nature of the
American military response.

Donnachadh McCarthy, from Camberwell and Peckham, said Liberal Democrats, as
"the political conscience of this country", must insist that all non-violent
approaches were exhausted before military intervention.

Jenny Tonge, the party's international development spokesman, said the people of
Afghanistan were facing poverty and starvation. She said: "We must bomb this
area - but we must bomb it with food and aid. It's cheaper than military action
and may win over a lot more hearts and minds." Paul Keetch, the party's defence
spokesman, said it was essential that the West did not fall into the terrorists'
trap by making a knee-jerk overreaction to the atrocities. He added: "The
blanket bombing of Afghanistan will achieve nothing save to make those intent on
committing acts of terror all the more desperate and all the more aggressive."

To applause, the emergency motion was passed unanimously. It expressed sympathy
for the victims of the attacks, which were described as a "crime against
humanity" and affirmed support for the British Government's response.

But the motion also insisted that any action taken be "precise and
proportionate", consistent with international law and "avoid as far as possible
civilian casualties".

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2001 Telegraph Group Limited

                              498 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                         The Evening Standard (London)

                               September 25, 2001

Kennedy warns of anger at strike on Afghanistan

BYLINE: Ben Leapman

SECTION: Pg. 10

LENGTH: 195 words


CHARLES KENNEDY warned today of huge opposition in Britain to military action
which killed Afghan civilians.

Although the Liberal Democrat leader supports a limited military response, his
cautious tone marks him out from the two other party leaders.

The note of caution came after a number of Liberal Democrats spoke out at the
Bournemouth conference against armed retaliation.

Mr Kennedy said the Afghan people should not pay too high a price for the
decision of the ruling Taliban to shelter terror suspect Osama bin Laden and
Britain could not provide a blank cheque to the US to strike the terrorists.

He said: "There will be a huge groundswell of opinion in this country that says
starving people who have neither invited a particular character to their
country, nor had a chance to vote for the administration of their country,
should not suffer disproportionately as a result of the position of that
country."

Defence spokesman Paul Keetch said a kneejerk response would play into the hands
of terrorists, while international development spokesman Jenny Tonge said
Afghanistan should be bombed with food and aid rather than explosives.


LOAD-DATE: September 26, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2001 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              499 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                             The Guardian (London)

                               September 25, 2001

On the brink of war: Holidays: Airtours shelves pounds 100m spend: Up to 1m
cancelled

BYLINE: Terry Macalister

SECTION: Guardian City Pages, Pg. 21

LENGTH: 381 words


Airtours, Britain's biggest package holiday company, has deferred pounds 100m of
expenditure and warned that job losses could follow the terrorist attacks in New
York.

The company said it was not exposed to the kind of fixed costs that had hammered
the airlines but the situation remained highly uncertain and it was "battening
down the hatches" on expenditure.

"We have cancelled between half a million and one million winter holidays and we
are in a world where no one knows exactly what is happening . . . We are looking
at everything daily and cannot rule out job losses," explained chief executive
Tim Byrne.

Airtours employs 29,000 people worldwide with 11,500 of them in Britain. So far
it has kept all its relatively small fleet of 55 aircraft working while British
Airways has cut flights and 5,200 jobs.

Last Friday Airtours admitted US problems had already cost it pounds 10m as
aircraft had been temporarily grounded and holidaymakers had to be evacuated.
That sent its shares tumbling 25p to 110p but they bounced back strongly
yesterday and finished last night at 1291/2p, up 191/2p.

Mr Byrne said all discretionary spending had been put on hold with new hotel and
IT projects waiting for signs that the uncertainty had lifted. Holidays to
destinations in the Middle East such as Egypt and the eastern Mediterranean were
at the forefront of the cuts.

Airtours has significant operations in countries such as America and Germany but
said the British market was holding up better than most others. "The UK is the
most robust but we are probably more used to this (uncertainty created by
terrorist attacks) than many others," he explained.

He said there was no threat to the overall financial health of the company with
a host of hotels able to be sold if it needed to raise cash. Yesterday it
unveiled the refinancing of its Mallorca-based Bellevue Hotel complex through
the disposal of its interests in another local property group.

Meanwhile Thomas Cook, Europe's second biggest travel company, stressed its
confidence in meeting its full year target of at least 10% operating earnings
growth despite fallout from the assault on the US. It reduced its losses for the
first nine months of the year to DM43.4m (pounds 14m) from DM60.3m.


LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2001 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              500 of 500 DOCUMENTS

                              The Herald (Glasgow)

                               September 25, 2001

Kennedy calls for resolve

BYLINE: Deborah Summers Political Correspondent

SECTION: Pg. 4

LENGTH: 308 words


CHARLES Kennedy yesterday called for determination and resolve in Britain's
response to the terrorist attacks in America.

Addressing the Liberal Democrat conference in sombre mood in Bournemouth
yesterday, Mr Kennedy warned against a "short-term knee-jerk" reaction to the
atrocity.

"We Liberal Democrats must be clear about our intentions," he told delegates.
"Resolve. There cannot be capitulation to the terrorist.

"Determination. That we strike at the heart of international terrorism."

Mr Kennedy said Britain must be a "candid friend" to the United States, standing
"shoulder to shoulder" with its stricken ally.

But he reiterated his warning that his party was not prepared to countenance a
"blank cheque" to the US.

"That means supporting American actions only in the knowledge that Britain will
be involved in all planning and risk assessment," Mr Kennedy said. "We owe that
to our armed forces."

In a hastily-scheduled emergency address, Mr Kennedy said he had earlier spoken
to the prime minister and fully backed his actions so far.

However, Mr Kennedy repeated his determination to oppose any new anti-terrorist
laws which his party felt cut across people's fundamental civil liberties.

As expected, he rejected the combative rhetoric of Mr Blair and President Bush
who have said they are "at war" with the terrorists responsible for American
attacks.

In an earlier debate on the terrorist attacts, Menzies Campbell, Liberal
Democrat foreign affairs spokesman, insisted any military re-action must be
based on "justice not revenge".

He warned: "The early chorus of condemnation will only be converted to a
continuing coalition of support if the response is based on clear intelligence,
is precise and proportionate to the need and is consistent with the principles
of international law."

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2001

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                Copyright 2001 Scottish Media Newspapers Limited



---- End of Request ----
Download Request: Select Items: 1-500
Time Of Request: Wednesday, February 21, 2018  21:15:00

